We hoped that at this time we could already have more flexible rules, but unfortunately the numbers and concrete consequences do not allow us to do so, and therefore we continue, in essence, with the rules that presided by the last Plenaries of the 1st Legislative Session.
Mr. President, very good afternoon to all and to all. The Bill No. 485/XIV/1.a (BE), 486/XIV/1.a (PCP), 487/XIV/1.a (PAN), 488/XIV/1.a (PCP), 489/XIV/1.a (CDS-PP), 490/XIV/1.a (CDS-PP), 491/XIV/1.a (PAN), 492/XIV/1.a (PCP), 493/XIV/1.a (PAN), 494/XIV/1.a (Deputate not registered Cristina Rodrigues), 495/XIV/1.a (BE), 496/XIV/1.a (Deputate not registered Cristina Rodrigues), 497/XIV/1.a (Deputate not registered Cristina Rodrigues
It is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is a matter of fact that it is a matter of fact that it is a matter of fact that it is a matter of fact that it is a matter of fact that it is a matter of fact that it is a matter of fact that it is a matter of fact that it is a matter of fact that it is a matter of fact that it is a matter of fact that it is a matter of fact that it is a matter of fact that it is a matter of fact that it is a matter of fact that it is a matter of fact.
Mr. President, they also entered the Projects of Law No. 499/XIV/1.a (IL), 500/XIV/1.a (BE), 501/XIV/1.a (BE), 502/XIV/1.a (Unregistered Deputy Cristina Rodrigues), 503/XIV/1.a (PCP), 504/XIV/1.a (BE) and 505/XIV/1.a (PSD). they also entered the Table, and they were admitted, the Projects of Resolution No. 612/XIV/1.a (BE), 613/XIV/1.a (PCP), 614/XIV/1.a (PCP), 615/XIV/1.a (PCP), 616/XIV/1.a (PCP), 617/XIV/1.a (PCP), 619/X
We are, therefore, able to start the first point of our agenda, which consists of political statements. The first political statement lies to the Parliamentary Group of the PS Deputy Luís Moreira Testa, I remember that the rules of operation of the Plenary remain the same that were in force before the holidays — unfortunately, but this is the reality.
This historical perspective helps us, in part, to understand the country that we are today — helps us in part and only in part. It is that in the entire 20th century, and in the years that we do not take action in the country, and in the years that we do not take action in the country, and in the years that we do not take action in the country, and in the years that we do not take action in the country, and in the years that we do not take action in the country, and in the years that we do not take action in the country, and in the years that we do not take action in the country, and in the years that we do not take action in the country.
very well!
But it is also not very important that they have built a agenda that puts, by system, the fight to the structural imbalances of the country as the topic of action — not only because it benefits only the territories of the interior, which would not be little, but because the harmonious development contributes decisively to the global development of Portugal, because it takes advantage of resources, takes advantage of capabilities, takes advantage of knowledge. In recent times, in the last months and in the last few months, the Parliament is still the largest in the past and in the last few weeks, we have perceived, in the end, the relevance of the centrality of such a change of paradigm. It has been this week, in Lisbon, the Parliamentary Forum Luso-Spanish, which, without prejudice to other topics, and even with prejudice to some, the transfront
very well!
In the middle of October, the Government will present the Recovery and Resilience Plan, a document that we have to have the opportunity to discuss and that, we are sure, will also deserve consensus, more than desirable, imperative, so that Portugal can be a balanced, harmonious and developed country. I am sure that this design is not just mine or of my party, I am sure that this is a national design and that all, without exception, we are indispensable to realize it. The principle of history can no longer be changed, but we can change the end and reinvent this Portugal.
How do you want to respond?
In three groups, Mr. President.
President José Luís Ferreira of the Greens.
Deputy Luís Testa, I congratulate you for having brought to the discussion a topic with this importance Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy
Deputy André Ventura, from Chega.
Deputy Luís Testa, we hear you, carefully, talking about decentralization and cohesion, but we cannot miss the opportunity to tell you the following: according to all the reports we have, from those of the European Union to those of the independent committees, today the country is less decentralized than it was five years ago. according to all the reports, today the country is less cohesive than it was five years ago, in the field of agriculture, in the field of employment, in the field of health and, above all, in the field of culture and industrial development. Come here to make a political statement about centralization, decentralization and cohesion is not more than to play with the voters. I put two very concrete questions. First: what is to distribute the Socialist Party in terms of decentralization will do in the first and again the authorit
Member of the European Parliament, João Dias.
Deputy Luís Testa, I want to congratulate you for the topic that I brought here, because it is quite relevant and for a long time that the PCP has discussed it in this House. Deputy admitted that for a few months, weeks or days they could finally realize the need to correct the structural and structural imbalances that we have in our country and that have led to these territorial imbalances. But, in fact, I regret that I did not hear you a word about the health of the population. Deputy concerned the health of the population. Deputy concerned the health of the population. Deputy concerned the health of the population. Deputy concerned the health of the population. Deputy concerned the health of the population. Deputy concerned the health of the population. Deputy concerned the health of the population. Deputy concerned the health of the population. Deputy concern
The Deputy.
What about the electrification of the Alentejo Line? what about the Alentejo Central Hospital? what about the second phase of the expansion works of the Beja Hospital? Deputy? and could have mentioned so many other things here.
Deputy Luis Testa, of the Parliamentary Group of the PS.
Mr. President, I am going to answer this lot of three questions, which we thank, as it is obvious. Deputy José Luís Ferreira, obviously that the Socialist Party considers family agriculture as a factor of development of the territories of low density and looks at this field of agriculture as that which is the most genuine of the forms of agriculture and which has to be, obviously, valued in the context of the national landscape. Aplauses of the PS. Deputy João Dias, if I allow, this is that point: we cannot put one of the issues that is important for us to develop the territories of low density as if it was the only public, and it itself is responsible for economic development, because there are other forms of agriculture, there are other forms of industry, there is also a productive capacity that has to be generated
That is that!
Therefore, I apologize to scalpelize, one-on-one, the dozen and dozen of public services that were reopened. Deputy had the opportunity to list a significant set of works that are on the investment lines, either of the PNI (National Investment Program), or of the National Reform Program, and that are also part of the agenda. The question that should be asked is not about the works, it is about the resources. We are working on the resources so that these works are a reality. Deputy André Ventura referred to the cultural decentralization and the industrial decentralization. Deputy is that stands for five years! Deputy does not realize anything of what is going on in the country! Aplausos of the PS. Risks of the CH. Deputy does not realize the advances, the last thing that happened in the legislation, it is about the
I ask you to conclude, please.
I will conclude, Mr. President. Regionalization is a flag of the Socialist Party for many decades, but it is not what we are defending at this time. At this time, we defend the democratization of the CCDR (regional coordination and development committees), because it is necessary that those who decide on the Community funds for the chambers, for the local municipalities, for the, for the citizens also respond democratically, although indirectly, on the decisions they make.
To submit requests for clarification, you have the word to Mr. Deputy Cecilia Meireles, of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group.
Deputy of the Socialist Party Luís Testa. Deputy and if it would be the same Portugal in which I live, because the country you describe — an oasis, an advanced country, full of plans, schedules, plans — in the best of the possibilities, exists only in your desires. What we really have is a country in which the decentralization for the municipalities, which you promised, has been postponed numerous times and is far from being complete. Protests of the Deputy of the PS Pedro do Carmo. I would like to ask you a question. Deputy talked about one thing he called “democratization of the CCDR”. It is not a democracy! That you call “democratization of the CCDR” in the reality, the state has been postponed numerous times and is far from being complete.
very well!
Deputy says, naturally, that are they who will apply the community funds, but I call you attention to the various news about the elections of the President of the PSD for this or that CCDR and even to the fact that the Government is taking advantage of the appointments of the CCDR to move in state secretaries, to send there some secretaries of state!
Exactly!
This is what you call “decentralization”.
very well!
This is the consecration of Portugal as a client country, in which Community funds are executed and who decides who receives them are political commissioners chosen by the central block PS/PSD!
This is the case with the representative of the PS Pedro do Carmo.
This is not democracy, this is the consecration of a much more personal client Portugal of the 19th century than of the 21st century!
President José Maria Cardoso, of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Bloc.
In fact, after so many public discussions on all these issues, we continue to have a country unbalanced, asymmetrical and with a great lack of cohesion of opportunities, which is the fundamental aspect to be taken into consideration. Before creating the conditions of fixation and attraction of the whole national value, which is fundamental to happen, it is necessary to realize why it is that the people have gone out of these territories, an old, debated subject matter, but whose results have been very few. In fact, after so many public discussions on all these issues, we continue to have a country unbalanced, asymmetrical and with a great lack of cohesion of opportunities, which is the fundamental aspect to be taken into consideration. Before creating the conditions of fixation and attraction of the whole national value, it is important to realize that the whole national value of the whole national value of
Deputy has to conclude.
And all this makes an ecological, agroflorestal and energy transition that meets the needs of our time. We must put people ahead of any economicist perspective.
It is the time for the Parliamentary Group of the PSD to ask for clarifications. deputy Carlos Peixoto.
Deputy Luís Testa is going to teach you specifically, I start by applying you in the country and by telling you that when I saw in the agenda of the session a political declaration on territorial cohesion presented by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party, I was waiting for a revelation, a novelty, a trait, any serious announcement. honestly, I don't realize why it is that the Socialist Party is talking about the PS specifically about this topic. Deputy is talking about the PS specifically about this topic. Deputy is talking about it! Deputy is talking about it! Deputy is talking about it. Deputy is talking about it. Deputy is talking about it. Deputy is talking about it. Deputy is talking about it. Deputy is talking about it. Deputy is talking about it. Deputy is talking about it. Deputy is
The Deputy.
It is not possible to get here without speaking about the proposal that the President of the PSD today made to decentralize services, in this case two courts to Coimbra...
Ah!
This is what you have never done in the past few years, and what you have never done in the past few years.
Deputy Luís Testa, of the Parliamentary Group of the PS, to answer the various questions.
Mr. President, Mr. Deputy Cecilia Meireles, could also discuss me about the desires of V. Ex.a and, of course, I would draw only one conclusion: in the desires of V. Ex.a the worst the best, so that I can attack what I can attack. Demonstrations of MPs of the PSD. Relating to the democratization of the CCDR, Mr. Deputy called on the presidents of the municipal council — municipalities of this Country — the members of the municipal assemblies, the presidents of the freguesia joints of political clients?!
That is that!
I invite you to recover this document and to read it, so that it can be updated and improved, eventually, and be the subject of your political proposal, which, of course, we will be available to analyze. But saying that there is no plan of interior valuation seems to me excessive, knowing all of us that there is a Program of Interior valuation, which is an official document of the previous government. Deputy, I invite you to the exercise of visiting this document. Deputy Carlos Peixoto, pipe is V. Exa!
I’m talking about ideas, not people.
Pifio is V. Ex.a, because he accuses others of making pifious statements.
What does this have to do with the ideas?
... but, in fact, when he had the opportunity to lead politics, when he had the ability to influence politically, when he had responsibilities with the Government that V. Ex.a supported, what V. Ex.a did was a mere exercise of hiding, hiding from his responsibilities and allowing the courts of his district to have been closed.
Everything backward, everything backward.
In addition, it is important to note that, if you are a member of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board.
I don’t remember the Troika.
Deputy cannot hide, neither of the reality, past five years! Deputy today brings us, to be able to appreciate, is the transfer of the central courts of Lisbon to this great city of the interior, which is Coimbra. Deputy, we can do all the exercises, all the exercises, but we need more than those exercises, we need to respond specifically to the people. Deputy said and that are in our plan of intentions of realisation,...
I ask you to conclude, you have already exceeded the time you have.
It is the only way to get rid of it, and it is the only way to get rid of it.
The Deputy.
Congratulations to the P.S. Parliament!
I know that solidarity has these things, but they are very close to each other and, therefore, if there was a possible move, thank you.
Deputies: It takes place on the next day 25 October the elections to the Parliament of the Azores. Being this the fixed Assembly of the Republic, I think it is timely and useful to bring to this Hemiciclo, as a political space, the results of the Socialist Government in the Region that are very worrying, I repeat, very worrying. The PS governs the Azores for five years, of which it is about 20 years with the majority of the PS the absolute. After this time, it is important to evaluate the “state of the Republic of the Azores” as the “state of the Republic of the Azores” as the “state of the Republic of the Azores” as the “state of the Republic of the Azores” as the “state of the Republic of the Azores” as the “state of the Republic of the Azores” as the “
In addition, we find government actions of reaction and non-proactive. The government of the PS in the Azores is dead! The government of the PS in the Azores doesn't want to know! The government of the PS in the Azores doesn't govern! Let's see, for example, the case of Ryanair, which flies to the Third. These flights were to end on December 31, but now they extended us for a while more. However, if the government had the will of the continuity of these flights to the Third had solved the problem before it was a problem.
very well!
Deputies: What to say about these unhappy indicators of my country, where the fault is not of the pandemic, because they are earlier than it?!
very well!
In the perspective of the Governments of the PS, there is no shortage of time! all of us agree that 24 years is more than enough time for us to plan the people of the PS, there is no shortage of time, there is no shortage of time, there is no shortage of time, there is no shortage of time, there is no shortage of time, there is no shortage of time, there is no shortage of time, there is no shortage of time, there is no shortage of time, there is no shortage of time, there is no shortage of time, there is no shortage of time, there is no shortage of time, there is no shortage of time, there is no shortage of time, there is no shortage of time, there is no shortage of time, there is
It is the first time that we have been able to do this, and it is the first time that we have been able to do this, and it is the first time that we have been able to do this.
Mr. President, I’m trying to call the table a few minutes ago, without it being addressed, because I wanted to register the Deputy Alma Rivera also for a request for clarification, before the elections in the Azores.
I think it’s a good thing to do, but I think it’s a good thing to do.
This is the most important part of the world’s economy, and the most important part of the world’s economy, and the most important part of the world’s economy, and the most important part of the world’s economy.
This is not true!
Deputy focused on a unilateral, pessimistic, measurement vision of our Region, the pessimistic Agenda, deliberately ignoring a set of fundamental aspects that would allow a global and integrated vision of development and growth that our Region has achieved in the past years, with a very large effort of all the Azorians. Applause of the PS. Deputy that the Azorians were the strongest that this region was the most necessitated that all of our communities were the most necessitated that all of our communities were the most necessitated that all of our communities were the most necessitated that all of our communities were the most necessitated that all of our communities were the most necessitated that all of our communities were the most necessitated that all of our communities were the most necessitated that all of our communities
I ask you to conclude, Mr.
As I was saying, to overcome these challenges, to respond to the needs that still persist, to ensure the recovery of our Region, which has been strongly affected by this pandemic, the Government of the Azores has launched the Agenda for the Economic and Social Renewal of the Region, which has 250 measures, and we have at our disposal a set of important European funds, which are undoubtedly an opportunity, but also a great responsibility.
I want to finish, Mr.
And my question, Mr. President, even to end, is this: to what extent is the PSD available to change the direction to which it has used us in recent years, with concrete proposals that effectively value the Azores and that can contribute to the development of our Region?
He has now the word to Mr. Deputy Alma Rivera, of the Parliamentary Group of the PCP.
It’s a good idea for you to be able to find out what you’re going to do, and what you’re going to do.
If we converge, I said, the truth is that many of the problems are also rooted in the Assembly of the Republic and to fight them we have not counted with the PSD. Aplauses of the P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.
To ask for clarification, you have the word to Mr. Deputy Mariana Silva, of the Parliamentary Group of the Greens.
Deputy António Ventura, which implements to this Assembly new concerns with the Autonomous Region of the Azores. The proximity of the elections brings these memories, but,, in times of pandemic, fear and uncertainty, the voters will know how to clarify about the programs that each force present and will know how to decide, to answer the problems that the PSD left in the region and to which the PS was not able to answer that the project of the population is put in place? It is, above all, essential that it is not to continue to use the promises and intentions that do not pass through it itself. Deputy, I will go straight to two questions that concern the Greens. As you will know, it was once again launched the competition for the construction of a central fire of solid urban waste in the island of St. Michael is the following
by António Ventura.
Deputies, the first conclusion of this debate is that all political parties that had the opportunity to intervene, except the PS, are in agreement with the PSD.
very well!
Therefore, the results are those. The situation is regrettable in terms of the results of the Azores government. This is the first big conclusion! Obviously the PS is not in agreement, because it is the one who governs the Azores.
to disguise!
Second conclusion: if the policies have as the sole goal the people, the improvement of their lives, their economic activity and their well-being, we have two indicators that tell us the opposite — clearly the opposite! — that are the fact that the Azores have the country’s highest risk rate of poverty and the country’s highest RSI value. After 24 years of governance of the PS, with so many plans, with so many agenda, with so many projects announced and with so many millions of the Republic, the European Union and the Azores Regional Government, the Azores’ taxpayers, the truth is that we have these results.
This is the first time I’ve been able to do this, and I’ve been able to do this.
There is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no
Mr. Deputy, you have to finish.
If the classes begin this week safely it is because the country trusts the public school, but the future of this trust will also depend on the government starting to do its part.
I think it’s a good thing to do, but it’s a good thing to do.
First to two and then to the remaining three.
To ask for clarifications, you have the word to Mr. Deputy Claudia André, of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
First Minister and Mr. Minister of Education do not accompany with actions what they announce in social media for a long time. The computers that were widely promised in social media and in this Chamber arrived today to schools? They arrived to schools this week? No, they did not arrive, at least from the Ministry of Education.
Nothing!
In relation to the operational assistants, they have been promised wide hundreds of places, wide hundreds of contracts. Even may have been made some, but the number of effective, technical and operational assistants, did not come to the same way that all the students were, when we had to confinate. Because they are the same that are there, they are changing the type of contract. So we agree that they stay there, that they are improved their working conditions, but it is necessary to recruit the matter that they are not going to the school, but it is necessary to recruit the matter that they are not going to the school, it is necessary to recruit the matter that they are not going to the school, it is necessary to recruit the country, it is necessary to recruit the country, it is necessary to recruit the country, it is necessary to recruit the country, it is necessary to recruit
I ask you to conclude, Mr.
If it wasn’t the work of the schools, if it wasn’t the great team that the schools have, I don’t know if it would be possible, today and during this week, the classes will continue or begin.
You have gone beyond your time.
Thank you very much, Mr. President, for the applause of the PSD.
It has the word, by the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mr. Deputy Ana Rita Bessa to ask for clarifications.
Mr. coPresident, congratulations to Mr. Deputa Joana Mortágua for the subject that has not begun, in a reedit of your conversation that we had last week, in a debate requested by the PSD. At that time, as you know and well remember, we all agree that the return to the presidential classes was a requirement in favour of the students and the families, so that the country will be guaranteed in the past years in the full activity. What is that the country has changed from the past week that the country has not given the teaching to this? What are the data that the students do not have a new solution? What we know is that a set of schools — for example, the international schools or some private schools — that have initiated the lesson activity earlier have also had several cases and that, by the recommendation of the health authority, as it is stipulated by the D
I ask you to conclude, Mr.
I will conclude, Mr. President. Do you think Mr. Deputy that this number of teachers is enough to ensure this reading support in continuity, when students have to go home?
To answer, you have the word to Mr. Joana Mortágua.
Mr. President, I would like to thank Mr. Deputies for the questions that were asked. The pedagogical continuity of students who have to go home for reasons of quarantine or because of belonging to risk groups is a matter that concerns us so much that the Left Bloc has already addressed a question to the Government on this matter. I don't know if the CDS did it...
and now!
The difference is that — and this comment goes also to the questions that were placed by Mr. Deputy of the PSD Cláudia André — when we ask these questions about the beginning of the school year, about the unprepared, about the space given to the improvised, about how are the schools to have to be at risk, we, in the Block of Left, have a certainty and we talk with that certainty: the one that we have presented timely solutions. These solutions were discussed in June and passed through a project of the decomposition of classes and the decrease of the number of students per class, which had many advantages.
O my deputy!
What they cut under the excuse of the crisis, what they cut under the excuse and with the hot backs of the troica was now a lot missing to respond to the pandemic. Those teachers who are no longer there, the rejuvenation that was not done, because they also blown proposals in that sense,... Protests of the CDS-PP Deputy Ana Rita Bessa.... the employees who were not hired and who now have to be hired, all this was an investment that could now have helped the public school to respond to these challenges. Therefore, when there was an opportunity to discuss solutions for education in time of pandemic, the Left Bloc did not miss that debate. The right said that our solution was not a solution for anything, but it is the truth, it has not presented an alternative to the BE.
We presented and presented!
There are three more inscriptions to ask for clarifications, the first is to Mr. Deputy Paula Santos, of the Parliamentary Group of the PCP.
Mr. President, fulfillment to Mr. Deputy Joana Mortágua in this time that the action is identified by the topic that brings today the debate to the Assembly of the Republic priority, with regard to the beginning of the school year. If it is true that, normally, it is with anxiety that the families and students, in particular, live these moments, always in the beginning of this new school year, given the circumstances in which we live, this year brings the concerns added to the educational needs. But already there we go. We would like to refer to, in the first place, the fact that this school year brings the debate to the Assembly of the Republic priority, with regard to the beginning of the school year is of great importance. Now, it is necessary to adopt measures from the point of view of the protection of the health of the students, the teach
Thank you very much Mr. Deputy.
We have already presented a proposal, at the beginning of this Legislative Session, exactly in this sense and consider this matter fundamental for schools to have conditions to protect the health of all.
You now have the word, for a request for clarification, Mr. Deputy Mariana Silva, of Los Verdes.
Deputies, The Greens congratulate the intervention of Mr. Deputies Joana Depágua on the beginning of the school year 2020/2021, a moment so important for all, even as society, for schools, for families and, in particular, for children and young people. The Greens take advantage of praising the efforts that the various school communities are considering the means to take back the school in a safe way for all. Unfortunately, many are the questions that Mr. does not need to take back the school in a safe way for all. Unfortunately, many are the questions that Mr. does not need to take back the school in a safe way for all. Mr. does not need to take back the school in a safe way for all. Mr. does not need to take back the school in a safe way for all. Mr. does not need to take back the school in a safe way for all.
Thank you very much Mr. Deputy.
As you said, don’t you think that the situations of these children should have an appropriate treatment to guarantee them the right to be in school without any discrimination?
Member Tiago Estevão Martins of the Parliamentary Group of the PS.
Deputies, Mr. Deputy Joana Mortágua, we know that, in fact, this is a complex school year, a very demanding year, which obviously calls us to a very difficult balance between health and the right to education. The truth is that, without ignoring the risks, it is our understanding that the return to face education, despite all the difficulties, is starting that in the most quiet way possible. Today, all schools are prepared and informed about how to proceed to avoid infections in the school environment, but also about how to act in the case of infection. Therefore, if there is something that has not happened, in fact, the government has gone behind the damage. This is important that we also recognize that the facet of the facet of the facet of the facet of the facet of the facet of the facet of the facet of the
very well!
So I wanted to end with a very concrete question: Mr. Deputy, don’t you recognize that despite all the work we have to continue to do to robust the public school, there are, in fact, more means and there was, this year, a real effort for the timely placement of teachers?
To answer, you have the word to Mr. Joana Mortágua.
Mr. President, I wanted to greet Mr. Deputies Paula Santos and Mariana Silva, because we shared this our political investment in the defense of the public school. Let us imagine what would be if the education of the children in Portugal depended on a private network, as he always defended the right, a check-in network, with schools in layoff, to make dismissals.
Don’t be foolish! it’s nothing!
What education would have been possible to do in times of pandemic?
very well!
The truth is that it is that investment that creates conditions for students with special educational needs—to whom, at this time, above all, cannot lack resources for schools to give the appropriate answers...
But they lack!
I know that Ms. Paula Santos shares with me the knowledge about the case of the school João de Barros, for example, where the students are still in containers and where it will be within containers that will pass the intervals and the hours of the meals, because, after so many years, the problem of that school, in Seixal, has not yet been solved.
The House of Representatives approves the budget at the highest level.
If you ask me if, for each group, two to four teachers, 900 precarious specialized technicians and half a hundred operational assistants — which were the resources available to schools before the pandemic — are sufficient, I tell you the year that the government was not able to do it all, but I tell you that it is not comprehensible that we are not able to do it all, but we are not able to do it all, and we are not able to do it all, and we are not able to do it all, and we are not able to do it all, and we are not able to do it all, and we are not able to do it all.
We go to the political statement of the Parliamentary Group of the PCP. has the word to Mr. Deputy Paula Santos.
Deputies: We commemorate the 41st anniversary of the proposed side of the National Health Service (SNS), a conquest of the health depending on April and a collective construction of all its workers, who, from the first moment, contributed with their knowledge to the public health, their efforts and commitment to ensure health care groups with quality and proximity. We commemorate the 2020 anniversary of the SNS, the public service, universal and general, which, from the early days, leaves the opposition to the other government the opposition to the opposition to the opposition to the opposition to the opposition to the opposition to the opposition to the opposition to the opposition to the opposition to the opposition to the opposition to the opposition to the opposition.
Exactly!
The hiring of health professionals is far beyond the necessary and, daily, we know new difficulties in healthcare units due to the lack of workers. Deputies: At this time, are placed large demands to the National Health Service, which imposes the adoption of measures for the recovery in the consultations, the surgeries, the examinations and the treatments that have left to do. The National Health Service has to continue to treat the patients COVID, not to do a primary medical consultation, prepare for the winter period that is approaching and, at the same time, ensure the monitoring and treatment of the patients with all other pathologies, which have not disappeared. Comparing the period between January and July 2019 with the 2020, there is a reduction of more than 4 million diseases in healthcare consultations, there is a primary call and there is a minimum of 100,000
Exactly!
In order to make the situation worse, in the first eight months of the year, more than 200,000 users have lost their health care solution, now totaling 953 000 users without a family care response. The recovery of the primary health care activity and their consultations must be considered a priority, as well as the recovery of all health care activity, and it is necessary to invest in that sense. Deputies: Faced with the centrality of the health issues, it is necessary to recover the PC equipment in the precise and given the lack of an effective response of the government to the health care plan, it is necessary to resolve the most existing health care problems. the PCP has delivered legislative initiatives, in this beginning of the session, to the value and strengthening of the rights of health workers, to the assignment of a supplementary remuneration to the health care workers, in which
Mr. Deputy, you have several requests for clarification, from the PSD, the Left Block, the Chega, the Liberal Initiative, the CDS, the Greens and the PS. How do you want to answer?
Mr. President, I apologize, there are a total of six requests for clarification?
There are seven, Mr.
Mr. President, then I will respond to the requests for clarification in three groups: two groups of two and, in the last group, the remaining three.
For the first request of clarification, you have the word to Mr. Deputy Sandra Pereira, of the Parliamentary Group of the PSD.
Deputies, first of all, I want, of course, to greet the Portuguese Communist Party for bringing this topic of health, which is very current, the debate. I still want to express, on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, a special greeting to all health professionals.
very well!
... which have faced, in recent months, challenges of great complexity. aplauses of the PSD. Deputies, we all know of the tremendous impact that the COVID-19 pandemic has on the health of the Portuguese. As he said, and well, the PCP, for half a year that millions of Portuguese experience a significant increase in the difficulties of access to the National Health Service, to the diagnostics, to the treatments and to other health services such as consultations and surgeries. Deputies, this year, for example, have been performed less than 100 000 scheduled surgeries in public hospitals, numbers that will unfortunately go up even more and to which they add, as he said, and well, Mr. Deputies of the Communist Party, the lists of waiting already come back.
Very well remembered!
Deputies, a national recovery movement of consultations, surgeries and diagnostic examinations is required, which must mobilize all sectors of society — all, Mr. Deputy, without exception — and health agents, bringing the State, the social solidarity institutions and the private entities and convened with health activity around only one common good: the satisfaction of the health needs of all Portuguese.
Good that there is a state.
I would like to ask you, Mr. Deputy, if, in the reality that we are currently living, it is not time to leave the ideological prejudices with the assistencial and complementary activity of the National Health Service and mobilize all resources so that you can do a recovery of all the health services that have been delayed and that have compromised the health of the Portuguese.
Member Moisés Ferreira, of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block.
Deputies, Mr. Deputy Paula Santos, as he mentioned in his intervention, signed yesterday the 41st anniversary of the National Health Service. Fourteen years after this same Chamber has created an instrument that allows health to be a right for the entire population, even with the votes against the right, the PSD and the CDS-PP, I think that, in addition to the happy anniversary that we should wish to the National Health Service, we also owe an enormous “obligate”, not only to the National Health Service but also to its workers. This is the most difficult year of the life of the National Health Service, faced with an epidemic, with a huge burden of work, but never turning the face to the struggle and their responsibilities.
I have!
The second is that it is in the National Health Service that we must invest and concentrate all public resources, because only it guarantees the right to health, as we have seen since March so far.
very well!
Therefore, what is needed, at this time, is even more National Health Service, is even more professionals in the National Health Service, is even more investment in the National Health Service, as activity recovery plans, of course, for primary health care, for medical councils, for hospital care, with autonomy for hiring, releasing the National Health Service from a famous Law of Commitments, with worthy careers for all professionals, from the auxiliary health technicians to the senior diagnostics and therapeutic technicians, nurses, doctors — all have to have a worthy career.
No one closed the doors.
I ask: is this not the way to misfortune? is it not the way, after all, to strengthen what protects us in the most difficult moments, which is the National Health Service?
You have the word, to answer, to Mr. Paula Santos.
Deputy Moisés Ferreira the questions that addressed me. Deputy Moisés Ferreira, saying that, in fact, we consider that the National Health Service is the solution to answer the problems that exist, the solution to ensure everyone, without any discrimination, the access to health care. Deputy, who closed the doors in the initial period of the epidemic...
It was the SNS!
...the units of the National Health Service were not.All kept the doors open, all hospitals kept their doors open.Who closed the doors and who closed himself in cups...
It was the SNS!
The PSD is now putting, again, a rhetoric question, but that in practice shows that, for the PSD, the important thing is not the strengthening of the National Health Service, not that the National Health Service has more capacity to respond to users.
It is not true!
It is not the PCP that has any kind of ideological conditioning. The PSD is that it is completely conditioned and, here, in its interventions, what defends are not the public interests, are not the health interests of the users, are more capacity to respond to the users. It is not to mobilize the public interests to transfer them to the private groups and the business of the large economic groups. The PCP’s aplause. This has been your position and your position in all this debate. Protests of the Deputy of the PSD Sandra Pereira. Mr Deputy Deputy, we want to mobilize all the public resources, but so that the SNS, the health centers, the hospitals have more workers, have more equipment, have more capacity to respond to the users. It is not to mobilize the public resources to transfer them to the private groups, that a minority of the National
...who responded to all, all without any discrimination, not leaving anyone at the door to treat. Mr. Pedro Filipe Soares (BE):  Exactly!
This is why we say that the National Health Service should be strengthened, not only to respond to patients with COVID, but to face the great need that there is, at this time, to recover from all the delays and not to benefit the private groups, as the PSD defends.
Deputy André Ventura, from Chega.
Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr.
Member of the Liberal Initiative, João Cotrim de Figueiredo.
Mr. President, Mr. Deputy Paula Santos, thank you very much for bringing this important topic to the debate and for almost having moved me. I am always surprised that the PCP comes to defend and speak of the SNS as if it was truly concerned with the people who use the health services and not with the protection of their electoral interests and the syndicates of health professionals or with their obsession for the omnipresence of the State in everything that is public services, as if it was not possible to provide good public services with a recourse to others other than the State. Mr. Deputy, if the PCP was even interested in defending the people, ask them if they would not prefer to choose their own doctor and their own hospital. If they were even interested in the people, they would not prefer to have a private list of public hospitals or other hospitals.
of course!
I asked those people, if they were even interested in them, if they didn’t like to know how it was that the more than 2000 non-COVID deaths were caused during the pandemic period, that this fantastic SNS, which the lady so gab, didn’t know how to solve. If I was even interested in the people, I asked them if they didn’t like — all of them and not just the public officials — to have an ADSE (Institute of Protection and Assistance in Disease) or a similar subsystem that will come, as we defend, in the Liberal Initiative.
You have the word, to answer, to Mr. Paula Santos.
It is not unusual that, in fact, it is not strange that, in the Assembly of the Republic, they always, but always, defend the interests of the economic groups of the area of health.
The people!
In fact, this is your role here, and not the concern regarding the users and the defense of the health and public health, of all. Applause from the PCP and the PEV. Protests from the CH and the IL. Deputies, it is not the SNS that leaves people to the door without care...
Just close the door!
We can give some examples: even now it has become public that there are private hospitals that have rejected pregnant women who had a positive test to COVID-19.
They are not the economic groups, they are the people.
Deputies know, that some patients have insurance and make the option for the private hospital and that, when sometimes unfortunately, things go wrong, what the private hospital tells them is: “We apologize, your ceiling is over. or pay or go out.” It’s not the SNS that sends oncological patients to the street and pushs them according to economic conditions.
Exactly!
The National Health Service treats everyone and that’s why the PCP defends all users, defends access to health of all users, and have been in that sense the work, the options and the proposals of the PCP in the Assembly of the Republic. See: with our proposal, it was possible to reduce the moderating fees in the National Health Service. We consider that they should be eliminated and we are fighting in that sense. With our intervention, it was possible to extend the assignment of transport of non-urgency patients to ensure access to health care. And here we are to defend the rights of who works, here we are to defend the extension of the National Health Service, here we are to defend more valences in primary health care, most values in hospitals.
The people!
For this role, do not count on the PCP! applause of the PCP.
You have the word, to ask for clarification, Mr. Deputy Anna Rita Bessa, of the CDS.
Mr. President, Mr. Deputy Paula Santos, would like to ask you if you know how much it is spending on health, in Portugal, every year. If you don’t know, but I tell you, Mr. Deputy: are 18 000 million euros per year, of which 10 000 million consultations come from the State Budget and are essentially spending on the SNS and 8 000 million are paid directly by the people in other providers. that day Mr. Santos was so, this is the reality of departure, that Mr. Deputy can’t deny. Nearly half of the health expenses, today, are no longer made in the SNS. Want to believe that the State is able to finance the total health expenses is an illusion and it was good that the PCP was realizing is what the numbers and the people were chosen on the SNS and the SNS are already paying
This is what Mr. Deputy thinks it is to provide a good service to citizens? Mr. Deputy Deputy, if your concern was, in fact, to provide this good service to those who need health care, there was no way to not understand...
I call your attention to the time.
I’m going to finish, Mr. President. There’s no way not to understand that the social and private sector have to be part of the equation, and it’s not to feed these sectors financially, it’s to give answers to people. But, clearly, Mr. Deputy, I know that, for that, I can’t count on the PCP. When it comes to helping people, instead of discarding any model that doesn’t serve anyone, we can’t count on the PCP.
Deputy José Luís Ferreira of the PEV.
Mr. President, I begin with your expectation to congratulate Mr. Deputy Paula Santos for having brought us a matter as important and always as current as is the situation of the SNS. In fact, the National Health Service has shown itself, without a surprise, at least for us, absolutely determining to comply with a constitutionally consecrated right, which is the right to health. Even those who have always looked side by side to the SNS recognize now — though that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that,
I call your attention to the time.
It is very easy to support Governments that close services and cut in the National Health Service and then come here to say that the National Health Service does not answer. What seems to us, Mr. Deputy, is that, having no reinforcement of the National Health Service, this will have many difficulties in responding to access to health care by the Portuguese in the future. I ask you if you share this opinion or not. Aplauses of the MP of the PCP Bruno Dias.
You have the word, to ask for clarification, Mr. Deputy Hortense Martins, of the PS.
Deputies, we congratulate Mr. Deputa Paula Santos for the intervention he made and, above all, for having brought us today the theme of health and, in particular, the theme of the strengthening of the SNS. The SNS has already 41 years and the Portuguese, today, cannot imagine Portugal without the SNS. Aplausos del PS. The SNS is, without a doubt, one of the greatest achievements of our democracy, created by Antonio Arnaut, being that some wanted to stay out.
They stayed!
This pandemic challenge clearly showed that health, in particular the SNS, was and continues to be a fundamental response and, in some cases, the only, as Mr. Deputy very well exemplified. But also I don't want to say that, for the pandemic struggle, are all called, so that this is an effective struggle and so that we can win. The SNS is, above all, its lawmakers, and I relate that we have already hired more than 1300 professionals. The SNS also has to continue to be a fundamental tool of fighting inequalities. In the matter of access, made all the difference when the moderating rates, instead of being cut, as we did here, in the Assembly of the Republic, with the PCP and the Left, are all called, so that it was increasing the reserve of the government today, and
I call your attention to the time.
I’m going to finish, Mr. President. Therefore, Mr. Deputy Paula Santos, I wanted to ask if the PCP is available to continue this path of strengthening of the SNS and to give you, also, more sustainability.
I give again the word to Mrs. Paula Santos to answer the three requests for clarification.
This is the most important thing that we can do in our country, and we can do in our country.
It was great!
What we would have, in fact, was a health with all the conditions for those who had economic possibilities and then a public service, say, indigent for those who had no resources.
That is what the lady says!
What we defend is nothing of that. What we defend is equality in access, quality for all and not only for those who have conditions to pay the access to health. Aplauses of the PCP and the PEV. Protests of the Deputy of the CDS-PP Ana Rita Bessa. Deputy José Luís Ferreira, in fact, we consider that the strengthening of the National Health Service is fundamental. It is necessary and essential to respond to the demands that today are placed, demands not only in the continuation of the fight against the epidemic, the treatment of the COVID patients, but also demands to recover the care that remained to do in this period, all the delays, and to ensure the access to health care, whether in the health centers, whether in the hospitals, and to ensure the access to health care, whether in the hospitals. For these measures, it
Exactly!
... they have to have an effective bond, they have to have a worthy career, so that the workers want to stay in the National Health Service and want there to develop their professional path. Mr. Deputy, to recover the activity, the consultations, the surgeries, the exams that have left to do, for example, it is necessary that there is the re-opening of the health extensions. There are health extensions that are still closed. If, in the initial stage of the epidemic, it was necessary to organize the National Health Service to answer an unexpected situation and that no one was waiting...
I call your attention to the time.
I will finish, Mr. President. It is not understood that the activity at the level of primary health care has not yet been restored, being these care essential and, as we often say, the gateway to the National Health Service. Therefore, what the PCP defends — I will even finish, Mr. President — is the need for an emergency plan for the National Health Service, with more means, more workers with rights, more financial means, more equipment, more conditions for the National Health Service to have this capacity, necessary to respond to the demands that are put today.
This is the first time I’ve been able to do it, and I’ve been able to do it.
Deputies: At the end of the last remote new legislative session, also as a political declaration, I presented here the availability of the CDS to contribute, now in scrutiny, now in complement, to the urgent economic recovery of the country in the pandemic period. Deputies, and it is with regret that I do not find this availability in the Government, to whom they are, of course, the primary responsibilities of this same mission. I read and listened carefully to the presentation of the said Government recognised from the same mission. I read and listened carefully to the presentation of this Strategic Vision for the solution to the Recovery Plan that here today we are discussing. And in all this process, I remember a old socialist rule: the socialists, when they don’t want to talk about what they didn’t do
very well!
Deputies? I see in the recruitment of the social support programmes of proximity with real partnerships between the municipalities and... — I think in the recruitment of the real partnerships in... — I think in the recruitment of the real partnerships in... — I think in the recruitment of the real partnerships in... — I think in the recruitment of the real partnerships in... — I think in the recruitment of the real partnerships in... — I think in the recruitment of the real partnerships in... — I think in the recruitment of the real partnerships in... — I think in the recruitment of the real partnerships in... — I think in the recruitment of the real partnerships in... — I think in the recruitment of the real partnerships in...
The Board registers six requests for clarification.
In two groups of three, Mr.
I'm not sure if you're going to get a lot of money and you're going to get a lot of money.
It is the first time that we have to do this, and the last time that we have to do this, and the last time that we have to do this, and the last time that we have to do this, and the last time that we have to do this, and the last time that we have to do this, and the last time that we have to do this, and the last time that we have to do this, and the last time that we have to do this, and the last time that we have to do this, and the last time that we have to do this, and the last time that we have to do this, and the last time that we have to do this, and the last time that we have to do this, and the last time that we have to do this.
Deputy Bruno Dias, of the PCP.
Deputy João Gonçalves Pereira, in the first step and the criteria of the Union and it must not cease to record that the form and the path of the program announces me if its solution to the economy that brought us to this document, with the Government to recourse to an external personality, say a lot of the logic of the external resource that the CDS feels at home, then in the options that differs in the concrete. but there is also no admission that the CDS is to maintain the press of the national funds and the national funds are to serve the national funds and the national funds are to serve the national funds and the national funds are to serve the national funds and the national funds are to serve the national funds and the national funds and the national funds are to serve the national funds and the national funds.
For request for clarification, have the word to Mr. Deputy Philipa Roseta, of the PSD. Please, Mr. Deputy.
Deputies, really, in the matter of public works, housing and infrastructure, Prof. António Costa Silva gathers everything in a single 140-page document. But the truth is that everything was already said. It was all reaffirmed, they said again... But what is missing?
It is accurate!
This Government demonstrates a screaming incapacity of execution as there is no memory. Deputy, it's why you think this Government has so much incapacity of execution. I think about it! What's the reason? It's not because of the lack of money. Look well: in the housing had 800 empty public buildings, had 50 million euros budgeted and executed 7 million euros! And how many fires? Zero, zero! It wasn't always so. The Eng.o Ferreira do Amaral, in a year, designed a program with community funds that produced 2000 fires per year, in the Government of Cavaco Silva! It's not always so! It's the Higher Council of Public Works that says that lack capacity of planning and organization, lack programs, lack capacity of management.
Call here the Dr. Victor who explains!
Prof. António Costa Silva said this morning that the problem was the lack of capacity of the Public Administration, which I reject. They are not the public officials who have a lack of qualifications. They are not, because I know them, it is not there, it is not that the problem. They know what the problem is? The problem is a bureaucratic culture, which is growing more and more, which creates difficulties to sell facilities, opening doors to corruption,...
very well!
...and that every time there is a problem and there is a program that you want to execute opens a “green way”, which is what you are preparing to do now with the funds, to walk faster than the normal people!This, yes, is the cornerstone that we have to destroy if we really want to end corruption.Member, I liked to know your opinion and I would like that we all declare, as the enemy number one, the bureaucratic culture that is increasingly increasing, for all, destroying people,, the economy and justice in our country.
I think it’s a good thing to do.
Deputies, thank you for the questions that have been put to me. Deputy of Liberal Initiative, João Cotrim de Figueiredo, telling you that the country heard Prof. António Costa Silva — in addition, he broke out in interviews — say that he has a vision, that he has a plan. Only we don’t know what is the plan and the vision of Antonio Costa! What it’s important to know and discuss is what is that of this plan and of this vision will go ahead and what is that will stay behind. That’s what it’s important to know. Deputy: now appears much more State, State and more State and lack of entrepreneurship, open economy. Therefore, it seemed that the plan had a certain direction, and suddenly, made a reverse march. Deputy P.P.D.D.D.D.D.D
very fine!
Deputy made here a statement, didn't ask questions, so I don't have any answer to give you, because he didn't ask me any questions!
If you don’t understand, that’s the problem.
As for the questions put by Mr. Deputy Filipa Roseta, of the PSD, well, the incapacity of execution of this Government is known and I would say until it is a sign of the Socialist Party: it announces a lot, it makes a lot of propaganda, a lot of reflections, a lot of debates, but when it reaches the time of execution it is that we have a problem. This is so, whether in the Government, whether in the municipal chambers. In addition, it is in a municipal council that we both know relatively well, the municipal council of Lisbon. But what is important? It is important that the Prime Minister, here even, in the Parliament, comes to say what is his vision, his plan, what will remove this same matter and what was presented. It is also important that the ministers, sectorially, to the Parliament,
If you’re looking forward to this, you’ll be able to find out what you’re looking forward to.
He asks a question he understands.
It is not strange that the political responsibility of the management of any crisis and the presentation of strategic visions for the country belongs, of course, to the Government and is in that sphere that the Left Bloc has worked and that the debate must be done. But we would like to put a question — and will realize, in the end, that the practice of the CD is, effectively, a matter — that it does not mean to the work of the CD, but it does not mean to the work of the CD, that it does not mean to the work of the CD, that it does not mean to the work of the CD, that it does not mean to the work of the CD, that it does not mean to the work of the CD, that it does not mean to the work of the CD, that it does not mean to the work of the CD, that it does not mean to the work of the CD
I call your attention to the time.
What is, after all, the vision that the CDS has for this? or will it continue, as it has done in recent years, to propose the implementation of policies that shrink the workers of our country, shrink the wages and income?
Parliamentary Deputy Carlos Pereira.
Deputy João Gonçalves August I go Pereira, thank you for having brought to the debate in the Assembly of the Republic this topic so relevant, in addition, the procedure that the Socialist Party considers absolutely essential. Deputy will also, in the commission, the opportunity to dialogue and consult with Mr. Minister of Economy and with Mr. Minister of Infrastructures the topics that I consider relevant. It is so that we consider that this plan that Mr. Government must be done. Deputy, because I had already heard this morning in the Economy, Innovation, Public Works and Housing Commission. It was a speech attached to ideological prejudices, as it was seen, completely ignoring the reality, this reality. But the prejudices and convictions that he demonstrated in consultation with Mr. Minister of Economy and with Mr. Minister of Infrastructures the issues that we have not
I call your attention to the time.
My question is this: did the CDS participate in this public consultation? said what I wanted, wrote something about the subject? contributed so that we could have a plan that eventually, in his head, in the head of the CDS, would be more appropriate? Deputy, there are only two ways: either the CDS says he wants to contribute, wants to participate, or the CDS does what he has done, that is the burned land policy — must be why he is in the position in which he is.
I think it’s a good thing to do.
Deputies, I begin to thank, again, the questions placed. Mr. Deputy Isabel Pires asked how is the CDS used to deal with the crises. I answer you, Mr. Deputy: you are used to take the country out of bankruptcy! That's what the CDS did, even in the last crisis we had, along with the PSD. took the country out of bankruptcy! Protests of the BE Deputy Isabel Pires. Therefore, Mr. Deputy, unfortunately, we are called to deal with many crises and to resolve them, crises that are provoked by the left. Therefore, unfortunately, we have experience in this matter, see there!
A good result!
It is clear that it is even in the matrix of the Democratic-Christian CDS the importance that has the work, the importance that the income has for the people, for the families... But, finally, I realize that the National Consulties is still not aware of it or that the Government is always not aware of it or that the Government is not aware of it or that the Government is not aware of it or that the Government is not aware of it or that the Government is not aware of it or that the Government is not aware of it or that the Government is not aware of it or that the Government is not aware of it.
Congratulations to end.
I'm going to finish, Mr. President. Deputy either did not hear or didn't realize.
For a political statement, you have the word to Mr. Inês Deputy of Sousa Real, of the PAN.
We are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are
Deputies to address you requests for clarification, so the Board would like to know how it intends to respond.
Two to two, Mr.
You have, then, the word, first and foremost, to formulate your request for clarification, Mr. Deputy Maria Begonha, of the PS.
Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr.
I would like to draw your attention to the time used.
This is why, Mr. Deputy, I end up asking for only a few more objective contributions from the PAN, since the Government is already, of course, acting on this matter.
Deputy Alexandre Poço, of the PSD.
And we can say it in several areas where, unfortunately, the Government of the Socialist Party is disappeared, does not respond to the call. And it does not respond to the call, when it comes to, for example, that it is difficult to have a time to submit a single proposal for a youth for a long time, a single response to thousands of young people who are losing their jobs, with the rate of youth unemployment to pass the 25%, the value is truly above the European average. But there is also a situation that has no response from the current Government, when, at the end of the five years, we continue to promise the new ones to be disappeared, the same objectives, the same objectives, the same objectives, the same objectives, the same objectives, the same objectives, the same objectives, the same objectives, the same objectives, the
Mr. Inês de Sousa Real, you have the word to answer.
Deputy Alexandre Poço. relating to the questions that Deputy has proposed in the country that has proposed in the country that has proposed in the country that has proposed in the country that has proposed in the country that has proposed in the country that has proposed in the country that has proposed in the country that has proposed in the country that has proposed in the country that has proposed in the country that has proposed in the country that has proposed in the country that has proposed in the country that has proposed in the country that has proposed in the country that has proposed in the country that has proposed in the country that has proposed in the country that has proposed in the country that has proposed in the country that has proposed in the country that has proposed in the country that has proposed in the country that has proposed in the country that has proposed in the country that has
Deputy Luís Monteiro of the Left Bloc.
Deputies, I want, first and foremost, to congratulate Mr. Deputy Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN, for having brought a topic that is rarely discussed in the Plenary, of access to health to education as a right, of employment with rights and of all individual rights that have been a brutal impact on the lives of millions of people from the youngest generations of our country. We are talking right now, of a historical period, of a generation that has already experienced two crises, that has already had difficulties in its academic path that is more than once and that has more structural problems that are not solved, from the housing to the student accommodation, from the access to health to education as a right, from the employment with rights and of all individual rights that have been one of the struggles that the Bloc of the Left has brought, from
The Deputy.
Mr. President, I’m going to finish. in the Assembly of the Republic are divided — and well, because that’s democracy — into two the fundamental views. on the one hand, one that thinks that the State is, in fact, a monster that will in no way help a greater capacity of the youth to emancipate; and on the other hand, that’s where we are, the vision of a stronger and more capable of responding to the crises of capitalism that we live.
You have the word to Mr. Deputy Alma Rivera, of the PCP, to ask for clarifications.
This is, in fact, a topic of extreme importance, because the problems that reach the youth are many and are serious. The country needs the youth in the middle of the new standards and the youth needs the school in the middle of the new policies. What we have had of the national value of the youth in the middle of the middle of the middle of the middle of the middle of the middle of the middle of the middle of the middle of the middle of the middle of the middle of the middle of the middle of the middle of the middle.
To answer, you have the word to Mr. Inês Deputy of Sousa Real.
Deputies for the questions they have left in this long obecatura and in this sense, because, despite the fact that they claim the right that they don’t have a particular right that they don’t have a particular right that they don’t have a particular right that they don’t have a particular right that they don’t have a particular right that they don’t have a particular right that they don’t have a particular right that they don’t have a particular right that they don’t have a particular right that they don’t have a particular right that they don’t have a particular right that they don’t have a particular right that they don’t have a particular right that they don’t have a particular right that they don’t have a particular right that they don’t have a particular right that they don’t have a particular right that they don’t have a particular right that they don’t
Deputy André Ventura, from Chega.
We do not want to do so, we do not want to do so, we do not want to do so, we do not want to do so, we do not want to do so, we do not want to do so, we do not want to do so, we do not want to do so, we do not want to do so, we do not want to do so, we do not want to do so, we do not want to do so, we do not want to do so.
I waited so many months, so many months for such a proposal against corruption that the Minister of Justice would present! And there presented. See that yesterday, we finally knew the reality of this plan. I quote the Minister of Justice: “The great point is the lack of data and the lack of a harmonic system of a preventive and repressive dimension.” It was that we missed, in fact. Looking for what we need, it was here that the President says that the President says that the President says that the President says that the President says that the President says that the President says that the President says that the President says that the President says that the President says that the President says that the President says that the President says that the President says that the President says that the President says that the President says that the President says that the President says that the President says that the President says that the President says that the President says that the President
I would like to pay attention to the time you still have.
This will be delivered today and it will be the first step, so the other parties allow it, to the restructuring of the state.
We are not!
Without requests for clarification, we go to point two of the work order, which deals with the assessment of Petition no. 644/XIII/4.a (António Manuel Lima Coelho and others) — Justice for military, professionals of the GNR and Maritime Police, together with the Law No. 486/XIV/1.a (PCP) — Comprehensive accounting of the service time of the careers and special bodies of the Public Administration, in general, and with the Resolution No. 484/XIV/1.a (BE) — Recommendation to the Government to proceed to the correction of the mechanisms of career progress of the Armed Forces, professionals of the Maritime Police and National Guard of the Republic António.
Deputies: Wishes, in the first place, to solve the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law.
Joao Vasconcelos of the Left Bloc.
In the name of the Parliamentary Group, the Parliamentary Committee, the Parliamentary Committee, the Parliamentary Committee, the Parliamentary Committee, the Parliamentary Committee, the Parliamentary Committee, the Parliamentary Committee, the Parliamentary Committee, the Parliamentary Committee, the Parliamentary Committee, the Parliamentary Committee, the Parliamentary Committee, the Parliamentary Committee, the Parliamentary Committee, the Parliamentary Committee, the Parliamentary Committee, the Parliamentary Committee, the Parliamentary Committee, the Parliamentary Committee, the Parliamentary Committee, the Parliamentary Committee, the Parliamentary Committee, the Parliamentary Committee,
Mr. Deputy Christina Jesus, of the Socialist Party, has the word, for an intervention.
In the words of the Holy Prophet (peace and blessings of Allah be upon him), in the words of the Holy Prophet (peace and blessings of Allah be upon him), in the words of the Holy Prophet (peace and blessings of Allah be upon him), in the words of the Holy Prophet (peace and blessings of Allah be upon him), in the words of the Holy Prophet (peace and blessings of Allah be upon him), in the words of the Holy Prophet (peace and blessings of Allah be upon him), in the words of the Holy Prophet (peace and blessings of Allah be upon him), in the words of the Holy Prophet (peace and blessings of Allah be upon him), in the words of the Holy Prophet (peace and blessings of Allah be upon him).
I am a member of the European Union and I am a member of the European Union.
I want to do this in the name of the person of the first subscriber, which is here today with us, the Sargento-Mor Lima Coelho is here with us, the President of the National Association of Sargento is here with us, the Sargento-Mor Lima Coelho is here with us, the Sargento-Mor Lima Coelho is here with us, the Sargento-Mor Lima Coelho is here with us, the Sargento-Mor Lima Coelho is here with us, the Sargento-Mor Lima Coelho is here with us, the Sargento-Mor Lima Coelho is here with us, the Sargento-Mor Lima Coelho is here with us, the Sargento-Mor Lima Coelho is here with us, the Sargento-Mor Lima Coelho is here with us, the Sargento-Mor Lima
Please pay attention to time.
Mr. President, I’m going to end. Therefore, we understand that this Left Block initiative goes in the direction of passing a white cheque to the Government and that we’re not in the position of passing any white cheque. I also think that the Left Block itself does not have that intention. Mr. President, thank you very much for your tolerance.
It has now the word, for an intervention, Mr. Deputy Olga Silvestre, of the PSD.
Deputies: Women and men who integrate the Armed Forces, the Republican National Guard and the Maritime Police deserve the recognition of the Country and the Government for their spirit of mission, for their dedication and commitment and, also, for the exemplary work they do on behalf of Portugal and the Portuguese and which, now, has been decisive in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic.
very well!
The petition must be applied to the military in the definition of the military in the definition of the military in the definition of the military in the definition of the military in the definition of the military in the definition of the military in the definition of the military in the definition of the military in the definition of the military in the definition of the military in the definition of the military in the definition of the military in the definition of the military in the definition of the military in the definition of the military in the definition of the military in the definition of the military in the definition of the military in the definition of the military in the definition of the military in the definition of the military in the definition of the military in the definition of the military in the definition of the military in the definition of the military in the definition of the military in the definition of the military in definition of the
very well!
Deputies, this is a matter that has a great impact on the life of all the military and even on the military structure itself, which should be treated with special care. This is the time to look objectively to the consequences of the application of the aforementioned decree-law to the aforementioned careers and, therefore, the PSD Parliamentary Group is available to, together with the Government, work in the direction of finding a formula that makes righteous to the claims of the petitioners and that is equitable in the recovery of service time, because it cannot be treated in the same way what is different. It is for us obvious that it is necessary to find a fair and meritory solution for the Armed Forces, for the professionals of the Republican National Guard and for the Maritime Police. We have the consciousness that Pavia and if we did not
Deputy José Luís Ferreira of the PEV.
Mr. President, the name of the law, the name of the law, the name of the law, the name of the law, the name of the law, the name of the law, the name of the law, the name of the law, the name of the law, the name of the law, the name of the law, the name of the law, the name of the law, the name of the law, the name of the law, the name of the law, the name of the law, the name of the law, the name of the law, the name of the law, the name of the law, the name of the law, the name of the law, the name of the law, the name of the law, the name of the law, the name of the law, the name of the law, the name of the law, the name of the law, the name of the law, the name of the law, the name
And I have the word, but I have only one and a half minutes.
Mr. President, at the time we are almost closing this debate, I wanted to clarify some misunderstandings. Obviously, this is a petition subscribed by citizens, by the military of the Armed Forces, by professionals of the GNR and Maritime Police. It was this your initiative, as petitioners, that caused the presentation of the PCP bill that we are today discussing, but the PCP bill does not only relate to these careers, it relates to all special careers. That is, at the time we want to support and give a satisfaction to the claims of these petitioners, we understand that the regime should be applied to all the workers of the special careers that were damaged, effectively, that for a long time more of nine years with the charges we are discussing, but the PCP bill does not only relate
Exactly!
That is, it was the employees of the special careers who, throughout these long nine years, had to bear integrally the costs of freezing the careers and also the costs of the subsidy cuts that were imposed on them, for several years, by the Governments of the PSD and the CDS.
Exactly!
These workers have paid these costs and have not become nine years younger than the others, the time has passed by all people, also by the public officials. Therefore, it is fair that what they have paid, with their living conditions, in these years, is repaid to them. We do not propose that it is immediate, but that there is a negotiated phase that allows to give that satisfaction.
António Filipe has to finish.
Mr. President, I’m going to finish. Finally, Mr. Deputy Olga Silvestre comes to tell us that there are careers that have to have a differentiated treatment. Mr. Deputy, every career has its specificity, but there should be no careers for anyone here. All have been damaged, all must be recovered for the losses they have had! Aplause from the PCP and the PEV.
I think I’m going to have a lot of money, I’m going to have a lot of money, I’m going to have a lot of money.
Deputies, effectively, as it refers to the petition itself, there is an unfair, discriminatory and indignant treatment for the military of the Armed Forces and for the professionals of the GNR and Maritime Police. We understand that, on the basis of the Decree-Law No. 65/2019, this injustice has also hit other workers of the special bodies of the Public Administration. But, having regard to that this petition has been presented here, we do not want to extrapolate the meaning of it, although we consider that all workers in this situation receive this indignant treatment.
We pass to the assessment of Petition No. 13/XIV/1.a (Transparency and Integrity) — By adopting a national anti-corruption strategy along with the Projects of Resolution No. 550/XIV/1.a (PAN) — Recommend to the Government to elaborate and present to the Assembly of the Republic a national anti-corruption strategy and 546/XIV/1.a (IL) — For the effective protection of denunciants.
I am the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is
The Deputy.
I give a good news to Deputy Cotrim de Figueiredo: the PAN will give entry, even during this month, of a denunciant protection status, which will guarantee the strengthening of the anonymity and the security of the denunciants, as well as the protection of the information it provides, and at the same time, will extend the legal concept of denunciant to people who do not have any kind of working relationship with the person or entity in which the irregularities or crimes are practiced, which are the only ones that have protection in the current legal framework.
That was what was lacking!
President João Cotrim de Figueiredo.
Deputies: Yesterday was the International Day of Democracy and no one has talked about it, and no one has talked about it, and no one has talked about it, and no one has talked about it, and no one has talked about it, and no one has talked about it, and no one has talked about it, and no one has talked about it, and no one has talked about it, and no one has talked about it, and no one has talked about it, and no one has talked about it, and no one has talked about it, and no one has talked about it.
I call your attention to the time.
A citizen who, according to the law, decides to denounce corruption crimes must have all the protection by the state and not be faced with a terrible dilemma: help justice or fear for their own security. Do you want a practical lesson of citizenship? Show to the youngest that whoever risks to defend democracy deserves recognition and deserves protection.
It has the word, for an intervention, Mr. Deputy Mónica Quintela, of the PSD.
Deputies: We greet the relevant initiative of the 8502 subscribers of the petition that asks the Assembly of the Republic to take advantage of a resolution with a view to the adoption of a national anti-corruption strategy. And the Government even seems  appears!  sintonized with this purpose, because it recently approved the National Anti-corruption Strategy for the period 2020 to 2024, finding it ongoing the public consultation of that legal diploma. It seems, I said, for you, as you know, was created the European General Prosecutor's Office, which is an independent body, with all that involves, and to whom it competes to investigate and exercise the criminal action in economic-financial crimes lesions of the European Union. It is the fundamental independence and the professional experience that the magistrate is not in the course of the
Mr. Carlos Peixoto (PSD): Good example!
And this is absolutely reprovable because the Government has allowed itself to preter, ostensively, the meritocracy and indicate someone of their confidence for the exercise of a position that is not of political confidence  what is more serious, because what is concerned is the investigation of crimes of corruption and fraud that can involve, including, members of the Government itself. to Mr. Minister of Justice, more than to the Government of the Republic of Macedonia! to the Government of the Republic of Macedonia! to the Government of Macedonia! to the Government of Macedonia! to the Government of Macedonia! to the Government of Macedonia! to the Government of Macedonia! to the Government of Macedonia! to the Government of Macedonia! to the Government of Macedonia! to the Government of Macedonia! to the Government of Macedonia.
For an intervention, he has the word to Mr. Deputy Claudia Santos, of the PS.
This is the most important part of the world, and the most important part of the world, and the most important part of the world, and the most important part of the world, and the most important part of the world, and the most important part of the world, and the most important part of the world, and the most important part of the world, and the most important part of the world, and the most important part of the world, and the most important part of the world, and the most important part of the world, and the most important part of the world, and the most important part of the world, and the most important part of the world, and the most important part of the world, and the most important part of the world.
You know that is not true!
... and omitting also the law of the Republic that specifies in detail the terms in which such appointment occurs.
It’s a lie! it’s a war!
As I said, we also know that it is necessary to protect democracy against certain populist speeches, which invoke corruption to win votes, even at the expense of the destruction of the pillars of the rule of law. Today we already know the experience of countries — other countries, with which we have ties — that have fallen into the fool of the speeches of right-wing populists who have presented themselves as anti-corruption justice. The knowledge of the experience of these countries and the suffering to which their peoples have been voted will, hopefully, be a powerful antidote against certain populist speeches on the matter of corruption. There is no less corruption when the guarantees of the rule of law are amputed.
I call your attention to the time.
We’re going to be in the middle of the day, we’re going to be in the middle of the day, we’re going to be in the middle.
Deputy José Luís Ferreira of the PEV.
Deputies: The first words are to, in the name of the Greens, to greet not only the thousands of citizens who signed this petition, but also the Association Transparency and Integrity, which dynamized it and promoted it and that, through this important instrument of democratic participation, brings the discussion a matter so important and that unfortunately remains so current, that is the fight against corruption. In fact, the fight against corruption is something that is imposed, even to improve our democracy, making it more transparent and attributing more rigorous to the management of the public thing, a fight to credit the institutions of our democracy, but also a fight in the defense and in the assertion of a culture of democratic responsibility.
very well!
... the second, the creation of the crime of illegal enrichment; and, the third, the need to strengthen the fight against economic and financial crime through the offshore centers. In fact, the transparency that should rise to the management of the public thing, and above all the responsibility of the people who have this mission before the citizens, requires, in our view, that it goes further in the matter of illegal enrichment. As for the economic and financial crime through the offshore centers, these mechanisms are the image of the injustice that reigns in the system. The tax paradises only serve for the big economic groups and the big fortunes to create highly elaborate mechanisms, to escape the taxes or to proceed to the cleansing of capital and even to hide the crimes that associates to the corruption.
Telmo Correia, member of the CDS-PP, for an intervention.
Deputies: I want to register, in the first place, some legislation to say that there is a lack of legislation, that there is a lack of legislation, that there is a lack of legislation, that there is a lack of legislation, that there is a lack of legislation, that there is a lack of legislation, that there is a lack of legislation, that there is a lack of legislation, that there is a lack of legislation, that there is a lack of legislation, that there is a lack of legislation, that there is a lack of legislation, that there is a lack of legislation, that there is a lack of legislation, that there is a lack of legislation, that there is a lack of legislation, that there is a lack of legislation, that there is a lack of legislation, that there is a lack of legislation.
I call your attention to the time.
I end up, Mr. President, saying that some of the matters here flored deserve our agreement: the status of protection of denunciants, which are not obviously a form of obtaining illegal evidence, are another thing, and the best status of regret deserve our discussion, but it is important that this discussion be made and consensual to fight this cancer, which mines, yet, and much, the Portuguese society.
Deputy José Manuel Pureza, of the Left Bloc, for an intervention.
Deputies: I want to rase the commitment, of course, to start by greeting the association that the burda of money has corruption of Transparency and Integrity and also, necessarily, all the signatories that challenge our attention and our work. The fight against corruption will always be a good fight if it becomes serious and not a merely discourse of agitation to throw the lame to democracy, will always be a good fight if it is determined against the powers of the great ones, that the rase of the great ones, that the rase of the great ones, that the rase of the great ones, that the rase of the great ones, that the rase of the great ones, that the rase of the great ones, that the rase of the great ones, that the rase of the great ones, that the rase of the great ones
Deputy António Filipe of the PCP.
We also understand that the fight against corruption is always a matter, that it is a matter, that it is a matter, that it is a matter, that it is a matter, that it is a matter, that it is a matter, that it is a matter, that it is a matter, that it is a matter, that it is a matter, that it is a matter, that it is a matter, that it is a matter, that it is a matter, that it is a matter, that it is a matter, that it is a matter, that it is a matter.
I think it's a good suggestion.Mr. António Filipe, I remember well the work that gave this draft resolution and its outcome, it would be good that a review was made.
Mr. President, the Chega begins by greeting this initiative and the Transparency and Integrity association for the work he has done also for this topic. We live in a time when the complaints have to be protected, with the term and with what the law requires, it is right, but they have to be. If we do the opposite path, we will pay for it in the near future. But the Prosecutor has to have its means strengthened, because it is not worth having any strategy against corruption if the Prosecutor has not its means strengthened. Mr. Deputy Claudia Santos, let me tell you that the case of the prosecutor who was in the first place and was not appointed to have the validation of the Supreme Council of the Magistrates...
The Supreme Prosecutor’s Board.
The truth is that we have a prosecutor who was better classified and was not appointed. Therefore, there is no strategy that is worth in this aspect. We have the same as we had in Tancos, a matter in which certain dignitaries could not be heard, and we have the same when judges are destroyed, which we all know, by this Government. So there is no strategy against corruption that is worth it and that is conclusive.
To intervene again, the word has Mr. Deputy Mónica Quintela, of the PSD, having 43 seconds.
Mr. President, I wanted to answer Mr. Deputy Cláudia Santos and elucidate her, because I have no doubt that you don’t know, given that you stated what you stated regarding the deliberations of the Supreme Council of the Prosecutor’s Office. Mr. Deputy, is public, can consult the site and see that the criteria of the Supreme Council of the Prosecutor’s Office, when you made the selection for the candidates, were established only after the candidates were known.
Now well!
It was very serious, Mr.
It is true!
You see the case and see the voting statement of Prosecutor Amadeu War regarding this matter, in which he abstained. It is not in question the Prosecutor, but the untransparent form as the appointment occurred. The prosecutor who stood first, Maria Carla Almeida, without error, contested this contest and only gave up the complaint precisely not to protel the works, with the condition that the candidates go without any classification. Therefore, what is being said is not true.
It's not true! protest of the PS Deputy Claudia Santos.
I call your attention to the time.
This is not true, Mr. Deputy! This is not to mention the contacts — that’s “other five hundred,” will be a matter for another headquarters — of the prosecutor indicated to other people and the other indications that have been made, too, by Mr. Minister of Justice, the case Freeport.
and other processes.
This is the most important part of the world’s economy, and the most important part of the world’s economy is the world’s economy.
This is the most important thing that you can do when you’re going to get a lot of money, and you’re going to get a lot of money.
Deputies, is in consideration the opinion. Pause. There are no words requests, we will vote it. Submitted to the vote, it was approved by unanimously, recording the absence of the CDS-PP, the PAN and the unregistered Deputies Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira. Before passing to the reading of the agenda of tomorrow, Mr. Secretary will make the announcement of the Deputies present in the session by video conference. Please.
This is the most important part of the world’s economy, and the most important part of the world’s economy is the world’s economy.
In the first place, in the second place, in the second place, in the second place, in the second place, in the second place, in the second place, in the second place, in the second place, in the second place, in the second place, in the second place, in the second place, in the second place, in the second place, in the second place, in the second place, in the second place, in the second place, in the second place, in the second place, in the second place, in the second place, in the second place, in the second place, in the second place, in the second place, in the second place, in the second place, in the second place, in the second place, in the second place, in the second place, in the second place.
Deputies, today’s work order has seven points of debate, but before we begin, Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha has several information to give.
Deputies entered the table, and the following legislative initiatives were admitted: Proposals of Resolution No. 11/XIV/2.a (GOV) and 12/XIV/2.a (GOV); Proposals of Law No. 506/XIV/2.a (CDS-PP), 507/XIV/2.a (PCP), 509/XIV/2.a (PCP), 510/XIV/2.a (PCP) and 511/XIV/2.a (PCP); and Proposals of Resolution No. 627/XIV/2.a (PCP), 628/XIV/2.a (PAN), 629/XIV/2.a (PAN), 630/XIV/2.a (PCP) and 631/XIV/2.a (CDP).
As it is evident, on the website of the Parliament, are identified the topics targeted by each of these initiatives. Deputies, let’s then start the first point of our today’s work order, which is the evaluation of the draft resolution no. 561/XIV/1.a (PS) — Recommend to the Government to establish a social fee for access to internet services. Deputies Filipe Pacheco, of the Parliamentary Group of the PS.
Deputies: The Socialist Party means all the socialists in the current process of digital transformation that we all live and we understand that all the socialists in the current process of digital transformation that we all live and we understand that all the socialists in the current process of digital transformation that we all live and we understand that all the socialists in the current process of digital transformation that we all live and we understand that all the socialists in the current process of digital transformation that we all live and we understand that all the socialists in the current process of digital transformation that we all live and we understand that all the socialists in the current process of digital transformation that we all live and we understand that all the socialists in the current process of digital transformation that we all the socialists in the current process of digital transformation that we all the socialists in the current process of digital transformation that we all the socialists in the current
It has now the word, for an intervention, Mr. Deputy Inês Sousa Real, of the PAN.
Parliamentarians: The creation of a social tariff will be the same rating of the country that will be the same that will be the same that will be the same that will be the same that will be the same that will be the same that will be the same that will be the same that will be the same that will be the same that will be the same that will be the same that will be the same that will be the same that will be the same that will be the same that will be the same that will be the same that will be the same that will be the same that will be the same that will be the same that will be the same that will be the same that will be the same that will be the same that will be the same that will be the same that will be the same.
President João Cotrim de Figueiredo.
Deputies: Welcome to another “liberal minute”, today dedicated to the ironies of life, ironies, these, which I think have passed uncertain to the PS in this draft resolution. First irony: 20 years after the beginning of the availability of internet services in Portugal, there are thousands of Portuguese who are still unable to pay them and therefore the discussion of a social tariff is justified.
So the market has not resolved?
I know that the PS is not the only party to celebrate the April Revolution, but passes to be the only party to celebrate the April resolution. Third irony, and this is a bit with ships of sadism, but it must be coincidence: by chance, all those services that you want to ensure in the basic access also serve to strengthen the tax position. Otherwise, let’s see: access to digital public services, with the website of the AT (Tax and Customs Authority) at the head; homebanking, to pay the fastest tax; electronic mail, to receive facility with those missives and in the CTTT estimates.
I ask you to conclude.
... even the PS asks the PS Government to be simple, because it already knows that these things, by complication, can stay in the bag. So that there are no doubts, Mr. President, we will not inviabilize this draft resolution, in solidarity with thousands of Portuguese who cannot pay the internet. But this, really, is no longer irony, it is sadness.
Deputy Hugo Carvalho of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
There is no such thing as to say that there is no such thing as to say that there is no such thing as to say that there is no such thing as to say that there is no such thing as to say that there is no such thing as to say that there is no such thing as to say that there is no such thing as to say that there is no such thing as to say that there is no such thing as to say that there is no such thing as to say that there is no such thing as to say that there is no such thing as to say that there is no such thing as to say that there is no such thing as to say that there is no such thing as to say that there is no such thing as to say that there is no such thing.
It is the time for the Greens to intervene in the debate, so has the word to Mr. Deputy Mariana Silva.
In the last few months, the members of the Parliament and of the Parliament and of the Parliament and of the Parliament and of the Parliament and of the Parliament and of the Parliament and of the Parliament and of the Parliament and of the Parliament and of the Parliament and of the Parliament and of the Parliament and of the Parliament and of the Parliament and of the Parliament and of the Parliament and of the Parliament and of the Parliament and of the Parliament and of the Parliament and of the Parliament and of the Parliament and of the Parliament and of the Parliament and of the Parliament and of the Parliament and of the Parliament and of the Parliament and of the Parliament and of the Parliament and of the Parli
Deputy Bruno Dias of the Parliamentary Group of the PCP.
Deputies in the same period, the subconsumers in the subconsumers in the subconsumers in the subconsumers in the subconsumers in the subconsumers in the subconsumers in the subconsumers in the subconsumers in the subconsumers in the subconsumers in the subconsumers in the subconsumers in the subconsumers in the subconsumers in the subconsumers in the subconsumers in the subconsumers in the subconsumers in the subconsumers in the subconsumers in the subconsumers in the subconsumers in the subconsumers in the subconsumers in the subconsumers in the subconsumers in the subconsumers in the subconsumers in the subconsumers.
For an intervention, he has the word to Mr. Deputy Isabel Pires, of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Bloc.
For example, if you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company.
This is the first time I’ve been able to do it, and I’ve been able to do it.
Deputies: First, I wanted to tell the Socialist Party that the CDS accompanies this initiative that aims to recommend the Government the creation of a social fee for access to internet services, broadband services, and that goes to the meeting of the European guidelines and directives.
That was what I said!
The 21st century is a digital century and therefore, as it is obvious, the countries that are in front of the digital transition will be better prepared for the challenges they will encounter. Whether the state, whether the companies, whether the citizens, we all have to do that same transition and this only can be achieved with the massization of the access to the internet. Therefore, a reduced tariff, which takes into account the correction of the asymmetries at the level of the income of the population, i.e., which allows precisely the access to this internet, is something positive, and there must be an effort from the state and from the whole society in promoting the inclusion and the digital literacy. The question that is placed, and that is not yet or has been discussed in this debate, is the following: Who will pay this? It is a process of the
That is, we subsidize.
In this area and in this field, the CDS presented a resolution project at the 5G level, which, basically, comes to recommend the following: that it is defined that the State creates incentives so that, in the 5G auction process, the operating companies can have benefits if they start their investments in terms of infrastructure precisely within the country, i.e., precisely in the areas where there is less access to the network and communications.
Deputy André Ventura, from Chega.
Deputies: Today we discuss a proposal that comes from the Socialist Party for a service that had been promised several years ago, not to say several decades ago. We have 20% of the family aggregates — I repeat, 20% — without access to the internet, we have 5% of our students without access to the internet, we have families who pay, on average, 700 € per year on the internet and telecommunications. Last year, the Prime Minister promised that, until July of this year, all the families and all the students would have access to the internet and a computer for access to the contents that were transmitted via digital. Where are we?!
The ignorant!
What is the communist country where the internet is so cheap that citizens can’t access it?
He has exceeded the time he has.
I’m going to finish, Mr. President. Deputy, representative of the Communist Party, saying “the internet this”, “the internet that”, when, in the countries in which VV. Ex.as govern, you can’t even access Google and Youtube.
Deputy deputy Filipe Pacheco, from the PS, for an intervention.
Deputies: The Socialist Party congratulates and appreciates the support of the majority of the political forces here present. This reveals the importance and relevance of the project we present. Deputy João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, who came to this Chamber complain that there are consumers who cannot pay for some communications services. Deputy who defends that the market should work freely? Or is it defending that the state should intervene in the functioning of the market?
Do you have internet too?
From the Socialist Party, answering in block to all interventions and to all questions, we understand, yes, that it is very important that the creation of this social fee is done in parallel and in the context of the transposition of the European telecommunications code, even to ensure the minimum debt for the universal service, i.e. the guarantee of the quality of the service. The creation of this fee should also be parallel to the definition of other measures that are already taking place, such as, for example, the program of digitalization for schools, which also has a part that provides access to the internet of students.
The second point addresses the discussion, in general, of the Bill No. 474/XIV/1.a (PSD) — Special Program of Social Support to the former COFACO workers.
The COFACO was the largest industrial employer of the island since 1963. it was the largest industrial employer of the island since 1963. it was the largest industrial employer of the island since 1963. it was the largest industrial employer of the island since 1963. it was the largest industrial employer of the island since 1963. it was the largest industrial employer of the island since 1963. it was the largest industrial employer of the island since 1963. it was the largest industrial employer of the island since 1963. it was the largest industrial employer of the island since 1963. it was the largest industrial employer of the island since 1963. it was the largest industrial employer of the island since 1963. it was the largest industrial employer of the island since 1963. it was the largest industrial employer of the island since 1963. it was the largest industrial employer of the island since 1963. it was the largest industrial employer of the island since 196
very well!
We are all elected, in all political quarters, to represent the citizens of this country — obviously also of the Azores — and to give to whom we choose clear and preferably gentle answers. The former COFACO workers have already waited too long without any concrete being done. I remember that the Parliaments of the Azores and the Republic have approved recommendations to the Government so that a special and transitional regime of increasing social support was created. And what has been done?! Nothing! The State budget of this year obliges the Government to establish that same system of increasing social support. We are almost at the end of the year and what has been done?! Nothing! Despite the apparent unanimity around the resolution of this matter, the Government ignores the real drama of the work of the COFAC, it is not necessary to vote with these people, this
very well!
Deputies, after having been unanimously approved, in the Parliaments of the Azores and the Republic, various recommendations to the Government to support the former workers of COFACO, it would be comfortable for an opposition party to limit itself now to criticize the Executive because it has not fulfilled. But it is not the struggle of party colors that moves us. What moves us is always, and above all, to solve the problems of who awaits us solutions. What moves us is to minimize a concrete drama that affects these workers. It is our plan. It is this, and above all this, our obligation. Instead of just pointing out what is wrong, we brought a clear, simple draft law that creates a transitory regime, with the prolongation of the law that moves us. What moves us is always, and above all
very well!
This is not asking, it is not a favor. This is a question of social justice. It was also for this that we all were elected, above all and, in this case, those here we are in representation of the people of our nine Azores. In front of such a fair and urgent cause, being in debate an initiative whose fundamental principles all the parties unite, nothing more is expected than the unanimous approval of this law. I call for consensus in this Parliament, so that we can, together, give an example for which, effectively, to serve the politics and to help these people. Don’t give a favorable vote to this proposal is to ignore the most vulnerable. Don’t give a favorable vote to this proposal is to fail to the ex-workers of the COFO. Don’t give a favorable vote to this proposal
Deputy Joao Castro for an intervention.
Deputies: I begin by congratulating the Social Democratic Party for sustaining this debate, with the present initiative, which goes to the meeting of the exposed in article 55 of the State Budget, in force since last March, which determines the establishment of a special and transitional regime of facilitation of access, value increase and prolongation of the duration of social support to the workers of the COFACO factory who are in the same situation of unemployment. It is important to remember that this article 55 resulted from a proposal of the PCP, which deserved the favorable vote in the specialty, as well as in general, of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party.
And what has already been done?!
For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party, what is most important is the closure of the company COFACO for the island of Pico and for the Azores. This company has assumed and assumes an economic and cultural impact of very significant expression that cannot be ignored. This is a matter that dates back to the year 2018, also in the Assembly of the Republic, which, including, unanimously approved the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No. 242/2018, recommending the Government to ensure social support to the former workers of COFACO, on the island of Pico. Since then, several have been the positions, whether by different parliamentary groups, whether by trade unions, whether by the organs of the Government of the Autonomous Region.
And...!
We are currently talking about 110 workers who keep their registration active. If nothing is done, they will cease to be covered by existing social protection programs. The COVID-19 pandemic and its impacts make even more obvious and urgent the need to find a system of protection for these workers and the local economy. Thus, whether in the framework of the current State Budget or in the framework of this initiative, faced with the urgent need to intervene on the social plan with respect to the COFACO workers on the island of Pico, and above all for this reason, the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party will follow this initiative.
very well!
A good decision!
Member of the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP.
Deputies: As it has been said all these conditions for the rest of the family for the rest of the family for the rest of the family for the rest of the family for the rest of the family for the rest of the family for the rest of the family for the rest of the family for the rest of the family for the rest of the family for the rest of the family for the rest of the family for the rest of the family.
You have now the word to Mr. Deputy Isabel Pires, of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Bloc.
Deputies 2020 and Mr. Deputies approve today the Socialist approve today the new facts of this new facts of the new facts of the new facts of the new facts of the new facts of the new facts of the new facts of the new facts of the new facts of the new facts of the new facts of the new facts of the new facts of the new facts of the new facts of the new facts of the new facts of the new facts of the new facts of the new facts of the new facts of the new facts of the new facts of the new facts of the new facts of the new facts of the new facts of the new facts of the new facts of the new facts of the new facts.
Oh yeah it is!
As it is obvious, this should be done as soon as possible. From the left bloc, from the beginning that we warned of that, that we denounced it, that we proposed it, here in the Assembly of the Republic, but also in the regional assembly. Therefore, considering that this situation is unacceptable, we maintain the commitment we have always had in the resolution of this injustice brought to these hundreds of workers and their families, but also to the economy of the region.
This is the time of the Parliamentary Group of the PCP. has the word to Mr. Deputy Alma Rivera.
Deputies: Today we discuss a matter of vital importance for the former COFACO workers and for the Pico itself. It is a topic that the PCP has successively brought, because it is vital to mitigate the social consequences of the closure of this factory. It was so two years ago, when a resolution was approved to ensure a special regime of facilitation of social support, and it was so, in the State Budget for 2020, when the proposal presented by the PCP, of social support to the COFACO workers was approved.
Exactly!
Deputies, since April, without any income, because, however, the unemployment subsidy has ended and they are not attributed the income of insertion. At one time of these, it is indecent what is being done. There are families without any income, we know situations that are truly dramatic. It is indecent that the Government has not done its obligation! Workers have already sent up to a sub-signate to the Government of the Republic to demand what is yours by law and that has been defined by the State Budget, so it is a discontinuation the talk of the PSD, I say, of the Socialist Party.
Well, but the PCP will continue to use its voice and all the means, here and there, to respond to this social emergency. Deputies, the impact of the collective dismissal of 300 workers, on an island that has about 14 000 inhabitants, is brutal. It represents a loss of more than 4% of the active population and 8% in the council of Madalena. Remember that we are talking about an island, with all the specificities that it involves, where it is not easy to find work and where it is not possible to go to look for it more there next.
Exactly!
And, to encourage the creation of jobs and the maintenance of the existing positions on the island, it is essential that the population does not lose the purchasing power, which was already happening even before the pandemic. Everything that helps to mitigate the afflictive situation of the former COFACO workers and the people of the island of Pico will have the support of the PCP, but we can not forget, also, that there are precise alternatives and the economic reconversion of the island of Pico to solve the background issues. And this is done with strong public services, such as health, with maritime and air mobility secured, with investments in the productive sectors, defending fishing and local agriculture. Only so guarantees the future of these COFO workers, the island of Pico and the Aplaus of the PCP.
If there are no more inscriptions, then we enter the final intervention of this point. deputy Paulo Moniz, of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
Deputies: My first words are to congratulate the fact that this subject, several times discussed, either in the Regional Legislative Assembly or in the Republic Assembly, has deserved this broad consensus and that, finally, by the hand of the PSD, has a concrete resolution. It is people and, for us, the protelar of advertisements and measures that are not translated into something concrete for the life of the people that has little interest. I can not also stop referring to Mr. Deputies Alma Rivera —there will surely be remembered of the debate that we had shortly before the holidays, when this subject was one of your questions to my intervention—which told you, at the height, that we were addressing the subject and that we would resolve it. As we see, it is a little bit of the decision that
We go to point 3 of the agenda that consists in the debate, in general, of the Bill No. 483/XIV/1.a (BE) — Extends the Extraordinary Scheme for the Protection of Renderers (the 4th Amendment to Law No. 1-A/2020, of 19 March) and 488/XIV/1.a (PCP) — Extends the Extraordinary Scheme for the Protection of Renderers until 31 December 2021 and defines the deadline for submission of applications for financial support from the IHRU until 31 December 2020.
There is no such thing as to do so; there is no such thing as to do so; there is no such thing as to do so; there is no such thing as to do so; there is no such thing as to do so; there is no such thing as to do so; there is no such thing as to do so; there is no such thing as to do so; there is no such thing as to do so; there is no such thing as to do so; there is no such thing as to do so.
Deputy Bruno Dias of the Parliamentary Group of the PCP.
For the purposes of this Agreement of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament
It has the word, for an intervention, Mr. Deputy Inês de Sousa Real, of the Parliamentary Group of the PAN.
For example, if you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company.
Deputy Hugo Costa, of the Parliamentary Group of the PS.
On the other hand, it is important to note that there is a high level of interest in the European Union and that there is a high level of interest in the European Union and that there is a high level of interest in the European Union and that there is a high level of interest in the European Union and that there is a high level of interest in the European Union and that there is a high level of interest in the European Union and that there is a high level of interest in the European Union and that there is a high level of interest in the European Union.
I am a member of the European Parliament and I am a member of the European Parliament and I am a member of the European Parliament.
Deputies: This is a huge difference between the law that is the left project and the solutions of the left project and the solutions of the left project and the right project and the right project and the right project and the right project and the right project and the right project and the right project and the right project and the right project and the right project and the right project and the right project and the right project and the right project and the right project and the right project and the right project and the right project and the right project and the right project and the right project and the right project and the right project and the right project and the right project and the right project and the right project and the right project and the right project.
Deputy André Ventura, from Chega.
Deputies: The proposal that is brought to us today shows two things, those who have a deep ignorance of the social reality and those who want, above all, to destroy the market. What we have here today is a set of proposals that completely disproteze the owners, the private property and the lords. Make them almost as criminals, in a state in which they have always to bear more taxes, and now makes them also the guarantees of social action. Portugal is the country of Europe with the most taxation on the lords and the property and, in comparative terms with the OECD, where the taxes on the property are more supported. And what they bring us here today is a project for these families, so they also pay taxes, because we are now responsible for being more taxes, and now it is also the guarantees of social action. Portugal is the country of
He has already exceeded his time.
I’m going to conclude, Mr. President. The PCP’s project goes further: he says that by the end of next year the gentlemen will be completely out of hand. It’s the same as saying “the market is destroyed, we’ll continue to work here.”
For an intervention, has the word Mr. Deputy Marcia Passos, of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
Deputies: The Left Bloc and the PCP bring the discussion to this Plenary proposals of amendment to the extraordinary and transitional regime of protection of tenants. In particular, we talk about the special regime that, due to the COVID-19 pandemic, justified that legislas, suspending the effects of termination of tenants until the next day 30 September 2020. Deputies, that we are facing tenants that, mostly, have already ended, for one or another reason, but have already ended. We are talking about situations in which, the result of the pandemic, associated with the social and economic crisis caused by that, the deadline of delivery of the property to its owners has been extended. So, a tenant that the house should have the termination of tenants until the next day 30 September 2020. Deputies, we are facing ten
Looking for another house?
... seek that, of course, should already have started before the contract ends. But we can also not forget that we are, or we can be, facing situations in which the tenants, although they have the possibilities of delivering the real estate to the gentlemen, do not only for comfort, covered by this exceptional regime. Deputies, not even pay the income, but continue, because they also benefit from this exceptional regime, to wait for the date of 30 September, damaging with it the gentlemen. On the one hand, there are tenants who do not pay the due income, on the other hand, there are gentlemen who are abroad waiting for the house to be delivered to you to live in Portugal in their own house. Or, if, for the long term of delivery, they only intend that the rest of December, they still intend to live in this exceptional regime, waiting for the date
It’s not December 32!
In this case, even dare ask: why not 2022 or 2023? does not make any sense such proposal, unless it hides the ambition of the PCP, which is the replacement of the functions of the State using, for that, the owners, which, of course, we repudiate. Deputies, benefit those who do not meet their obligations, as is the payment of the income, as is the lack of payment, by the State, to its suppliers — positions of these we repudiate and we will always repudiate. We are, as we have come to demonstrate, fully available to, in the discussion in the specialty, find solutions, eventually until accepting to extend the deadline of delivery of the real estate, but since they are solutions of good sense and balance.
by Bruno Dias.
Deputies: While some continue on the same cross of ever, by assuming themselves as representatives and defenders of the real estate funds, you see the political hypocrisy of whom the proposals of the PCP that protect the lords in a fair way with the compensation of the State. Not that the lords wanted! Fill your mouth with social justice and then speak of the tenants as if they were criminals. And they speak of 2021 as if it were the year of grace, in which it will be all in the peace of the angels. Deputies, neither the lords believe in your own words!
It has complexes with private property!
We continue where we were, with the proposal to extend the regime until 2021, so we do not follow the decline that the BE had when replacing its proposal from 2021 to 2020. We do not agree with time losses or with maneuveres of anyone who wants, finally, continue to defend the same interests as usual.
For the last intervention of the debate, has the word to Mr. Deputy Maria Manuel Rola, of the BE.
Deputies: We had, and we have, a concrete problem and a housing crisis to which the market has not responded and to which the PSD and the CDS have come to intensify with the changes they have made to the rental legislation, without anticipating the response that they so ask that the State now comes to guarantee.
This is not true! it is not serious!
The answer that can be guaranteed is not by the forgiveness of income, not by the freezing of income, it is by the maintenance of contracts with the same conditions as the previous, and must be guaranteed only for another three months. We are talking about a period of increased pandemic, in a period of health crisis,...
It is a regabofe!
The market did not guarantee the fight against the pandemic in health, but also did not guarantee it in housing, when, although the dishes are suspended, it hired private security, illegally, to cleanse people from buildings that were empty for more than two years and that continue to be protected by gold visas, on the edge of any democratic state we have. And we also know that this crisis brought a problem with respect to the search for a house. I would like to ask Mr. Deputy Marcia Passos how is we look for a house if we can’t get out of it. This is a question for which I really like to get a answer: how is we look for a house without leaving it? How is it that we rent a house if we don’t have a democratic state we have. And how extra income we do?
Embrace and Barry!
Well, if the good sense and balance of the PSD pass by sending people to the street in a situation of pandemic crisis, in a situation of income loss, now, it seems to me that “balance” and “good sense” are no longer part of the dictionary of the right. On our part, we are here to answer and maintain the balance and good sense, so necessary to ensure that all people are protected in their right to housing, which is essential in this moment of pandemic crisis, and to health.
Following the fourth point, which consists in the evaluation of the Resolution No. 471/XIV/1.a (PCP) — Recommends the Government to revers the alienation of the New Bank, its transfer to the public sphere and the specialized support to micro, small and medium enterprises and, in general, the Law No. 499/XIV/1.a (IL) — Conditions the exercise of the rights of conversion by the State of credit in capital of the New Bank to its prior approval by the Assembly of the Republic Deputy Duarte Alves, PCP.
Deputies: In the last month of May, the Government made the transfer of more 850 million euros to the New Bank, without the pandemic and all the challenges we face have made it even pestanear. At that time, the PCP presented the draft resolution that we now discuss, which puts on the table the beginning of the process of recovery of public control on the New Bank, the necessary condition to end this authentic national scandal that is the State paying the cleaning account of a bank, but, in the end, the bank is not our, nor is it placed to the service of the economy and the country. From May to now, what we will know about the New Bank only gives more strength to the arguments of the PCP. We have, yesterday and before, auditions with the President of the New Bank, the President of the New Bank, the President of the New Bank, the
Exactly!
The Dr. Resónio Santos Ramalho, who guaranteed in a statement that the people do not seek the division that knows who are all the recipients last and who was indigned with who made the resolutions on the fulfilment of the law, was not able to clarify the Assembly of the Republic on who they are, eventually, these recipients. We are talking about business such as the sale of the insurance company GNB Life, which represented the loss of more than a million euros that the people made the truth that the government made the loss of more than a million euros that the government made the loss of more than a long time that the government made the loss of more than a long time that the government made the loss of more than a long time that the government made the loss of more than a long time that the government made the loss of more than a long time that the government made the loss of more
Exactly!
The Portuguese are still paying the consequences of this resolution, based on a lie and then aggravated by the decision, already of the Government PS, of privatizing at zero costs the bank, delivering it to the State to pay, giving a public guarantee of 3.9 billion euros. Also there it is said that the privatization, and I cite the Prime Minister, Antonio Costa, “this will not have the direct or indirect impact of the national policy on the public accounts that this government does not control the public that there is no new charges on the time that it can live with a group of taxpayers.” Well, the truth is that the assets covered by the guarantee were badly assessed, which allowed the administration to register losses to be the State to pay.
President João Cotrim de Figueiredo.
Deputies: The draft resolution that the PCP brings to us reminds me of that saying “for those who only have a martel, all the problems seem to him crazy”!I know that the PCP has a martel and foice, but yet all the problems seem to him crazy.
Look there, you don’t want to end in the place of prayer!
For the PCP, if there’s something to solve, the solution is always the same: nationalize; if there’s something to improve, some service or some regime, the solution is always the same: more State and only State. And, if the matter meets bank, then, all the Marxist-Leninist anger, I don’t know if still Stalinist, comes to the top and “as the bank is the heart of capitalism, there’s to draw the heart of the beast!”
Exactly!
... and the results were catastrophic! Even today we are paying the decapitalization of the bank and the economy of that time. The Liberal Initiative does not have such obsessions nor is attached to such a type of past, it does not need it to survive, and therefore comes here to present a draft law that aims to prevent the possibility of the State to come to participate directly in the capital of the New Bank, without discussion and by silence. In the Law No. 61/2004, which we intend to come here to change, the State attributes itself to the right of conversion of credits relative to, for example, impartials. The New Bank had the need to use this alternative, because otherwise it would not comply with the ratio. And this led it to the impartials that would have been much lower if the State had the law to comply with
The Deputy.
I will conclude, Mr. President. It was no longer enough the annual bleeding we have through the Resolution Fund, now we had the State to participate directly in the future losses of the New Bank. It was just what was missing! I leave this requint of evilness: the Minister of Finance who approved the magnificent negotiation that makes the Resolution Fund diluted, but that the Lone Star is not diluted in case of conversion, it is the same Governor of the Bank of Portugal who can now not protect the interests of the Resolution Fund. And this gives reason to the Liberal Initiative when he drew attention to the enormous conflicts of interests of this appointment of the Governor of the Bank of Portugal.
His intervention left a tear of excitement in the eye of the Salgado!
President José Luís Ferreira of the Parliamentary Group of the Greens.
Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies.
You have the word to Mr. Deputy Cecilia Meireles, of the CDS-PP, for an intervention.
Deputies: In this discussion we are having for the hundredth time about the nationalization of the bank in Portugal, I would start by saying that the PCP project could be called “this is worse the amendment than the soneto.” In fact, when we look at the situation of the New Bank, we think that it could not be worse, but, if we follow the PCP project, it could be much worse, and I explain why. The PCP project proposes the nationalization of the New Bank, but I would like to remember that there was already, as a solution for a bank that failed, the BPN, the solution of the nationalization and the account we paid for it was 5000 million euros, for a bank that is more or less a decade of that was the BES.
A few immorals.
Unfortunately, it was not privatized at zero cost, it was privatized with a account that was a €3900 million guarantee, which is now appearing.
It is an immorality!
And it was, in fact, by the Government of Antonio Costa. Only that it was not only by the Government of Antonio Costa, it was by the Government of the PCP, by the Government of the Block of Left and by the Government of the PEV. The gentlemen realized when they signed a documentary there to the hidden in a cabinet. And the money of the taxpayers, which since then was there to stop, was with the budgets that the gentlemen voted. Therefore, if the PCP, instead of having remembered that he wanted to vote against the Budgets after having some electoral results, if he had remembered that at that time, never a toast would have gone there to stop.
Did you talk about the results of the election?
You need a mirror.
For an intervention, he has the word to Mr. Deputy Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Bloc.
There are several different types of cookies that can be used in order to ensure that you have access to our website and that you have access to our website and that you have access to our website and that you have access to our website and that you have access to our website and that you have access to our website and that you have access to our website and that you have access to our website and that you have access to our website and that you have access to our website and that you have access to our website.
very well!
Today we have the result of decisions that have been made, in consciousness, by the PS, with the support of the PSD: there is a ruined contract of sale, repeat, ruined, there is a predatory management of the Lone Star and there are suspicions of fraud in the management of the contract with the State. And, therefore, there is only one thing to do: investigate these suspicions, with independence and in defense of the public interest, denounce this contract and recover the control of the New Bank.
I would like to draw your attention to the time used.
Deputy of the Liberal Initiative or the PSD, the CDS and the PS shouldn’t have an ideology, shouldn’t defend an ideology in this matter — what rays of ideological dogmatism is that that makes them continue to insist on a sale, when it’s in front of the eyes that that sale was ruined and thatining in the public sphere was a better option?!
It was!
What kind of dogmatism is that that prevents you from seeing the options that best defend the interests of the State?!
You have to conclude, Mr.
Finally, I leave a word of greeting to the employees of the New Bank because I think they deserve and have no responsibility for what the administrations have done.
Member of the Parliament, André Silva.
In the last few years, the Lone Star has done what you want, with a management of the authentic as the abutre and the Lone Star has done what you want, and the Lone Star has done what you want, and the Lone Star has done what you want, and the Lone Star has done what you want, and the Lone Star has done what you want, and the Lone Star has done what you want, and the Lone Star has done what you want, and the Lone Star has done what you want, and the Lone Star has done what you want, and the Lone Star has done what you want, and the Lone Star has done what you want, and the Lone Star has done what you want.
Deputy André Ventura, from Chega.
Deputies: We have to start by saying that this of the New Bank is a big trouble, because, in fact, we should never have had, as we had, nominations of individuals that, as we already knew or should know, would have an envy curriculum in the United States, condemned for fraud and corruption. And, as we also know, were allowed nominations in the New Bank that were shameful today any state of democratic law. But, Mr. Deputies Mariana Mortágua, there are not only two moments of responsibility, there are three or four, in fact, because, in addition to these two moments he mentioned, we remember another, in which Mr. Deputies Martins signed an agreement with the Dr. António, the Bank is not the institution of the New Bank. And, as we also know, it was allowed nominations in the New Bank
I would like to draw your attention to the time used.
I'm going to finish, Mr. President. Therefore, there are no two moments of responsibility, there are three or four. Even to finish, Mr. President, I'm tired of hearing about nationalizations. For the PCP it's the only solution that exists in Portugal: nationalizations!
When we pay!
If we search on the internet by PCP and nationalizations—to such internet that, in Cuba, works well—there appear thousands of news.
The Deputy.
We are here to pay, as always!
I have paid it! this is the question.
Deputy Duarte Pacheco of the PSD.
Deputies: The relevance of the New Bank for the Portuguese economy is unquestionable, either at the level of the depositors, or at the level of their participation in the financing of the economy and the Portuguese companies. And, therefore, all that happens to the New Bank is something that should deserve our best attention. But it is necessary to think high. The problems that happen in the New Bank have a first responsible: the management that happened in the BES and that, therefore, is a police case. And we will not confuse the things — never! — although there is someone more interested in accusing political forces than those who are the real cause of the problem. Secondly, it is also necessary to highlight that this Parliament analyzed deeply, with an examples of an investigation, directed by Mr. Negrito, the President, that the whole matter in this week has been
Voting against the PCP.
For example, some people say: “At that weekend, the Bank of Portugal should have had the ability to make the assessment of all assets and to proceed to an exemplary separation; in 48 hours, it should have done it and, if it did not, it failed.” That’s what some say. In theory, this may be true, but, humanly, we know that, in 48 hours, it would be impossible to make the exemplary separation of assets that we all would like to have occurred.
Of course yes!
And it was because it appeared to such a guarantee. That value of 3.9 billion didn't appear by miracle, it wasn't a currency in the air that fell at 3.9, as if it was played in the casino. No! These calculations were made and were identified. So there, yes, there was a very clear mistake, assumed to all the Portuguese. Finally, we stay in this question: was it only the Bank of Portugal? And, this week, what was it that came to say Dr. Maximus dos Santos, Deputy Governor of the Bank of Portugal and responsible for the Resolution Fund? It came to say that all the process of alienation was treated by the government.
Exactly!
Therefore, Dr. Mário Centeno cannot say that he did not know the existence of toxic assets, at the value of 3.9 billion, at the time that this alienation occurred.
But there is more! says Dr. Maximo dos Santos that there is a restructuring plan that has been negotiated with the European Commission and that this restructuring plan ends in 2021. And why is it that we are not all attempted to extend the date of this restructuring plan? What initiatives have been developed? When the economy is immersed in a crisis, the deadlines are all equal, knowing perfectly that whoever sells quickly sells cheap and with potential losses. Deputies, in fact, there is a lot to be narrow, but this does not mean that this debate makes sense.
And now!
I call your attention to the time.
The solution they propose is the nationalization, as always, thinking that they still live before 1989, in the RDA (German Democratic Republic).
Deputy Fernando Anastácio, of the PS.
Deputies: In fact, it is true that we are anticipating a debate that is scheduled for the next week, when we have to discuss the proposals for the constitution of an investigation committee. However, I also acknowledge that, because of the importance of the topic, there is no need to be afraid or to take a moment for its discussion. In addition, after hearing some interventions, there is a reflection that suddenly puts me: some want to nationalize; others don’t want to see the state there, in any way; and others don’t know well what they want, because they don’t want to nationalize, but have no solutions.
This is the case with PS.
Deputies, I think there must be an adult in the Hall who puts a little responsibility in the Portuguese financial system so that we can advance with some concrete issues.
It is Mr. Fernando Anastácio.
It is that discourses, without resolving and without assuming responsibilities, are very easy to do. Deputy Duarte Alves, I recognize you consistency and I recognize the conviction of your proposals. In addition, for a long time the Portuguese Communist Party has defended this solution, but the conviction and consistency are not, of course, synonyms of reason.
It is true!
In fact, it can be coherent, but it has a solution that, in the first place, is not proved that it is less expensive for taxpayers, and this is an important question. A challenge that is placed to the Portuguese Communist Party is also to tell the Portuguese how much it would cost the nationalization of the New Bank. It was important to know what would be the damage or what would be the advantages of this solution. The Portuguese Communist Party defends the nationalization, but does not give that answer. Mr. Deputy Mariana Mortágua defends, and defends that it defended, sometimes, that it should stay in the public sphere, but, in its analysis, omitted the impossibility that exists in this matter and that it has to do with the rules of the General Direction of the Competition and the obligation to be the bank sold from the Deputy
and coherence!
My dear Deputy Cotrim de Figueiredo, usually, already with some perception that very hardly your projects will have some support and responsibility at the level of the executive decisions in the future, what does it do? Go to the parliamentary debate and to the decisions of the Assembly of the Republic matter that is strictly of executive competence, confusing the debates. However, the 40 years of our democracy have shown that the structure of our legal-constitutional system, with the difference between legislative power and executive power, is very well delivered and is stable.
I don’t know!
Deputy Duarte Pacheco, I agree with some of the issues he said and in fact, center, of course, the problem in the management of the BES. It is not worth escaping to it. The management of the BES is a police case and we will assume that it is the same. In addition, the Parliament did a structured work in the Commission of Investigation to the Management of the BES and, in the short step, will have the opportunity, of course, to do a work of analysis of aspects that were not verified at the time, from the period of resolution to the present. We don't be afraid of the issues. Deputy, who was read to align the responsibilities of the moment of resolution, failed to have the ability to do the same reasoning relating to the sale. Or, while the resolution, the Bank had not done... but
I would like to draw your attention to the time available.
I will finish now, Mr. President. Deputy, what I can tell you is the following: we all have the certainty that at that time the then Governor of the Bank of Portugal and the Government of Passos Coelho also were, probably, of the hand given. Or are it only now the current Governor of the Bank of Portugal and this Government? That is, we have two weights and two measures.
Deputy Duarte Alves.
We are not strange that the PSD pushes guilt to the PSD; we are not strange that the Deputy André Ventura defends and whites the positions of the Government of Passos Coelho, because, at the time, he was in his party; as well as we are not strange that the Liberal Initiative defends the one that is his liberalism, the one that the State pays but does not send.
Exactly!
It has also been spoken of the various State budgets. See the proposals that the PCP presented, in the State Budget for 2020. What said the proposal of the PCP? Of the two, one: or the State does not continue to pay the bills of that bank or, if it does, it has to start the process of recovery of public control. Who voted against this proposal? PS, PSD, CDS, Liberal Initiative and Chega, who, in the background, assumed to be in accordance with what is going on, that is a situation in which the State pays but does not send and in which the public control is not guaranteed, despite continuing to pay the bills of that bank... Protests of the Deputy of the PSD of Carlos Silva.... especially when it is viewed that the New Bank has to do the government, the CDS, the Liberal Initi
Exactly!
What will be left in the New Bank to deliver to any foreign private group is the good part, and that’s what we can’t accept: stay with the losses and not stay with the profits. That’s what happened in the BPN and Banif cases: the losses were public and the profits for the private.
Exactly!
Therefore, we must begin to fall into reality. We have already paid the New Bank accounts and continue to pay them. Now, if the losses are public, we must ensure that the profits are not private and that the same mistake is not repeated to put the State to pay without having control. This is the meaning of the initiative that the PCP presented in this Assembly.
Deputies, we pass to the fifth point of the agenda, with the joint debate of the Projects of Resolution no. 75/XIV/1.a (CDS-PP) — Recommend to the Government to establish a network of family support and promote the study and debate for a family and birth policy, 77/XIV/1.a (CDS-PP) — Establishment of an eventual commission for the follow-up of the initiatives on family and birth, 59/XIV/1.a (PSD) — For an integrated policy for childhood and family and 255/XIV/1.a (PCP) — Recommend to the Government to adopt cross-border and integrated measures of support and incentive to birth.
This is the most important part of the world, and the most important part of the world, and the most important part of the world, and the most important part of the world, and the most important part of the world, and the most important part of the world, and the most important part of the world, and the most important part of the world, and the most important part of the world, and the most important part of the world, and the most important part of the world, and the most important part of the world.
To present the draft resolution of the PSD, the word has Mr. Deputy Lina Lopes.
This is a problem that has a huge problem of birth and a problem that has been resolved and a problem that has been resolved and a problem that has been resolved and a problem that has been resolved and a problem that has been resolved and a problem that has been resolved and a problem that has been resolved and a problem that has been resolved and a problem that has been resolved and a problem that has been resolved and a problem that has been resolved and a problem that has been resolved and a problem that has been resolved and a problem that has been resolved and a problem that has been resolved and a problem that has been resolved and a problem that has been resolved.
For the presentation of the draft resolution of the PCP, has the word to Mr. Deputy Paula Santos.
Deputies: The PCP has had a consistent and persistent intervention on the problem of demography and birth rate. Reduced birth rate in our country is not a fatality, nor are we condemned to this reality. Low birth rate is, by the way, the result of the right-wing policies, which do not give stability, security and conditions to families to be able to have the number of children they want. One of the conclusions of the 2013 Fecundity Survey was that having children is not for anyone who wants, it is for anyone who can, revealing as well as the lack of economic and social conditions constitutes an obstacle at the time of the decision of the number of children that each family effectively has. Diagnosis on low birth rate is done. Not missing studies that the bonds, the local instability and conditions to families are able to have the number of children
Do not propose, no!
In addition, I remember until the PSD and the CDS had great responsibilities in the period in which there was the greatest birth break in our country. It was a period in which instability in the workplace was greater, a period of unemployment, low wages and cuts in social functions. This was, in fact, the reality.
For God’s sake! as if this happens in the short term... what disappointment!
We can make all the discussions of paternity and the responsibility of the family and the responsibility of the family and the responsibility of the family and the responsibility of the family and the responsibility of the family and the responsibility of the family and the responsibility of the family and the responsibility of the family and the responsibility of the family and the responsibility of the family and the responsibility of the family and the responsibility of the family and the responsibility of the family and the responsibility of the family and the responsibility of the family and the responsibility of the family and the responsibility of the family and the responsibility of the family and the responsibility of the family.
Deputy José Soeiro, of the Bloc de Esquerda, has the word for an intervention.
Deputies: The diagnosis is known, as it has already been said, we face a double dynamic of aging and decline in the number of births and we have, in Portugal, a screaming discrepancy between the desired fertility and the real fertility, that is, between the desires and the projects of the families and the obstacles they find to fulfill these desires and those projects.
It is true!
Being father or be a mother is a choice today. it is not a time that calls on a specific point of politics. it is not a time that calls on a specific point that calls on a specific point that calls on a specific point that calls on a specific point that calls on a specific point that calls on a specific point that calls on a specific point that calls on a specific point that calls on a specific point that calls on a specific point that calls on a specific point that calls on a specific point that calls on a specific point that calls on a specific point that calls on a specific point that calls on a specific point that calls on a specific point that calls on a specific point that calls on a specific point that calls on a specific point that calls on a specific point that calls on a specific point that calls on a specific point that calls on a
So you agree with us!
You have now the word to Mr. Deputy Mariana Silva, from the PEV, for an intervention.
Deputies: The Greens all times consider that the topic of childbirth the births and the demography go to the medical work is of extreme importance. The Greens have long said about the transversality of this question, about the fact that the effective proposals of public support to the Portuguese families pass through access to education, to health, with the right of all to have a family doctor, to free public transport until the age of 18 and above all to labor rights. The discourses of concerns that the childbirth is for the real childbirth is for the real childbirth is for the real childbirth is for the real childbirth is for the real childbirth is for the real childbirth is for the real childbirth is for the real childbirth is for the real childbirth is for the real childbirth is for the real childbirth is for the real childbir
Mr. Sónia Fertuzinhos, of the PS, has the word for an intervention.
Members: Family and birth policies are topics that have been on the agenda of the political and social debate, Parliament and this Government. Say the opposite, ignoring the policies that have been adopted since 2006 — and that have again gained political priority in the Government’s action since 2015, with the express goal of supporting birth — as some of the projects presented, is to contribute to the opposite of what the CDS and the PSD say to pretend in these same projects. Case studies and comparisons of a wide scientific literature show that it is the integrated, coherent and stable combination of various public policies over time, with the centrality of family policies, which allows results in the creation of an environment that supports families in the realisation of their projects and parents.
It is true!
But it is important to remember that in the history of the adoption of the policies of a part of the French, and in the history of the French, and in the history of the French, and in the history of the French, and in the history of the French, and in the history of the French, and in the history of the French, and in the history of the French, and in the history of the French, and in the history of the French, and in the history of the French, and in the history of the French, and in the history of the French, and in the history of the French, and in the history of the French, and in the history of the French, and in the history of the French, and in the history of the French.
I call your attention to the time.
Deputies and Mr. Deputies of the CDS, the family and the support to the family are not, as they say in these projects, a taboo topic, and they are no longer for a long time. Deputies and Mr. Deputies of the PSD, the family policies we have today in force are already based on a strategic and coherent vision.
I thank you for ending it.
I will finish, Mr. President. It is obvious that we emphasize and recognize a certain change in your family policy proposals in relation to what you defended and implemented between 2011 and 2015, with catastrophic consequences for the evolution of birth. Demonstrations of the PSD Deputy Clara Marques Mendes. Mr. President, end by saying that the construction of a strong social and political basic understanding regarding the measures of public policy, to bring about the desired fertility of the realized fertility, is important.
Thank you very much for the time you have passed in a minute.
We are available for this, but these proposals from the PSD and the CDS are not the answer.
Mr. Deputy Lina Lopes has the word to intervene again, having 50 seconds.
Mr. President, Mr. Deputy Sónia Fertuzinhos, I think we are not in the same Country, nor in the same Parliament. Mr. Deputy, in 24 years of legislature, you were in the governance in 18 of them. What did you do? It was the 6 years we were that nothing was done? And what did you do in 18 years? We did nothing?! It was all done for you?! So, it was wrong done! Why is that the parents have no more children? Mr. Deputy, what we asked — I think you didn’t hear us — was that we had an extended consensus, that we joined efforts, that I was not against the PS and the PS is against the PSD. Let’s join efforts! The families and the young people needed support. Mr. Deputy said that I didn’t have so much work, I didn’t have so much
I call your attention to the time.
They were transversal! it was what we went to say! you heard me? you didn't hear me!
I read the project!
Therefore, what costs me really is that, when we talk seriously and we want a consensus, the gentlemen flee. want or don't want? They've been 18 years in this Government! PSD aplauses.
The “castanholas” are always a pleasure... Laughs. Mr. Deputy Sonia Fertuzinhos, ask the word for what effect?
Mr. President, I intend to make an interpellation to the Table, apologizing for the «castanholas». As I saw that I was looking to the side, it was a way to try to make me hear, not intervene. Mr. President, I just wanted to say, after the intervention of Mr. Deputy Lina Lopes, that the Parliamentary Group of the PS will have all the pleasure to get to the Table, so that it also consists of this meeting, a document with the evolution of family policies in the different areas, in Portugal, since 2006, so that, in the next debate, Mr. Deputy Lina Lopes cannot repeat what she just said.
I'm not sure if you're going to do this, I'm not sure if you're going to do this.
Mr. President, the topic in debate is relevant enough and so structural to justify a type of debate different from that that that the Socialist Party, in particular, wanted to bring here. There are things that we cannot conciliate, being one of them to find that the evolution of the demography in France has been linear since the 18th century...
This is not what I said!
And therefore there were no discussions, reforms, and moments in which, of course, it was necessary to re-think all that was being done.
This is not what I said!
Mr. Deputy Sónia Fertuzinhos wanted to convince us that this Socialist Party Government was a kind of 18th century for the demography in Portugal and that, from now on, everything will go well.
It was nothing of that I said!
Mr. Deputy, neither the Socialist Party did everything right or all wrong, nor the solutions to your left exhaust the universe of possible solutions.
I didn’t say that either!
The question we put here is very simple: in front of the demographic evolution that exists in Portugal, no one can convince us that, first, it is positive and, second, it is already noticed some inversion solid enough and with statistical relevance to be able to find that some policies that have been promoted are having that substantial change effect in the evolution of our demography. This should make us think that, for example, in the context we now have, with this crisis that Mr. Deputy has spoken too — and well — we have studies, or statistical information, for example, from the DECO (Portuguese Association for Consumer Defence), that the loss of the income that has been promoted can also have an impact of 70% of the generated income.
I call your attention to the time.
I will finish, Mr. President. Add that, for example, the data of the Bank of Portugal say that the pandemic cut 8.2% of the income of the families, that is, there is, at the same time, a cutting of income in 70% of the families and a cutting of 10% in that income. If we don’t realize that we have here a problem added to what has already been a very negative evolution of the demography and that we will have a even more serious problem in birth, we’re not even realizing how it is that we’ll be able to solve all the other structural problems of the country.
We now go to the sixth point of the work order, which consists in the discussion, in general, of the Projects of Law No. 476/XIV/1.a (PAN) — Create a special unit of salvation and animal rescue, proceeding to the third amendment to Law No. 27/2006, of 3 July, and to the first amendment to the Civil Decree No. 45/2019, of 1 April, No. 494/XIV/1.a (Deputy not registered Cristina Rodrigues) — Amendment to Law No. 27/2006, of 3 July, and the Decree No. 45/2019, of 1 April, proceeding to the creation of the special animal rescue team and No. 501/XIV/a (BE) — For the Civil Protection of the Cat, the Civil Protection of the Law No. 45/2019, of 1 April
For example, if you do not have the right to do so, you will have the right to do so; if you do not have the right to do so, you will have the right to do so; if you do not have the right to do so, you will have the right to do so; if you do not have the right to do so, you will have the right to do so; if you do not have the right to do so, you will have the right to do so; if you do not have the right to do so, you will have the right to do so; if you do not have the right to do so, you will have the right to do so; if you do not have the right to do so, you will have the right to do so.
You have now the word, to submit your bill, Mr. Deputy does not register Christina Rodrigues.
Deputies: In this my first intervention, and of the few that will be allowed to do in this Legislative Session, I can not cease to regret the change to the grid of times approved at the last Conference of Leaders, grid that does not mention the unregistered Deputies. With all respect, it seems to want to silence the voice of two Deputies, women, legally elected by the people. In relation to the initiatives now in debate, for example, both the tragedy of Pedrógão Grande and the of Santo Tirso have made it clear that there is an urgent need to have an entity responsible for the aid of the animals affected by disasters. And from now on I thank the individuals and associations that have played a fundamental role in this context. In the audiences on the St. Tirso, it was possible to verify that
You have now the word, to present the draft law of the Left Bloc, Mr. Deputy Maria Manuel Rola.
Deputies must ensure that the districts are the most frequent and serious disasters in our country, with tragic consequences in human level, of natural resources, of goods, of enterprises, but also, and again, of the districts of the districts of the districts of the districts of the districts of the districts of the districts of the districts of the districts.
It has now the word, for the presentation of the PEV draft resolution, Mr. Deputy Mariana Silva.
There is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there
António Lima Costa, MP of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
Deputies: The draft law of the PAN, Mr. Deputy not registered Cristina Rodrigues and the Bloc de Esquerda and the draft resolution of the PEV have as common objective to integrate in the civil protection system the component of the rescue, rescue and animal rescue today. These are initiatives that arise in the sequence of the emotional environment generated by the death of dozens of animals in two shelters, caused by a forest fire that is proposed. This dramatic event of July and all the diskoordination, which was well patent and well visible, of the entities involved made us awaken, there is no doubt, for the relevance of the issue that we discuss today. In this regard, the PSD, a party with questions in the cause of animal protection — it was the precursor criminal process of the death of dozens of
very well!
In a normal time of fires, for example, and in front of our territorial extension, it would be impossible it to break down by various theatres of operations, very far from each other. We disagree, therefore, with this model. The PEV resolution project is inocous and unsequent and therefore does not deserve us more comments. As for the law project of the Left Block years, the PSD recognizes it virtues. Civil protection is an essential public service for the security of the citizen, which, recalled, must always be at the center of its action, but the PSD defends that it is equal, whether it is national or municipal, with gradualism, with good sense, with realism, the mission of civil protection to the former and they are the first-year-old rescue that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is left with this matter of
very well!
It was another episode in the strategy of the ongoing dismantling of the Ministry of Agriculture, this made withdrawing to the DGAV the competences of the health and well-being of the companion animals and attributing them to another ministry. With great loudness, the head of the Government ignores the crucial role that the DGAV has played in the protection and health of the animals and all the veterinary and zootechnical knowledge accumulated and recognized internationally, and embarks in unacceptable political experimentalisms. This loudness puts in danger the public health and health and well-being of the animals, by putting on the side all the experience acquired in this field, by ignoring an integrated analysis and the evident synergies of the parliamentary knowledge and to the discovery that the government is introducing
Member Telmo Correia, of the CDS-PP.
In relation to these various projects that are presented by the President of the Republic of Lithuania and the Republic of Lithuania and the Republic of Lithuania and the Republic of Lithuania and the Republic of Lithuania and the Republic of Lithuania and the Republic of Lithuania and the Republic of Lithuania and the Republic of Lithuania and the Republic of Lithuania and the Republic of Lithuania and the Republic of Lithuania and the Republic of Lithuania and the Republic of Lithuania and the Republic of Lithuania and the Republic of Lithuania and the Republic of Lithuania and the Republic of Lithuania and the Republic of Lithuania and the Republic of Lithuania and the Republic of Lithuania and the Republic of Lithuania.
I now give the word to Mr. Deputy Alma Rivera, of the PCP.
As a result of this, it is important to note that there are a number of different types of clothing, such as clothing, clothing, clothing, clothing, clothing, clothing, clothing, clothing, clothing, clothing, clothing, clothing, clothing, clothing, clothing, clothing.
Deputy Santinho Pacheco, of the PS.
Deputies: We are a country increasingly attentive and available in the municipal emergency animal assistance in the municipal emergency animal assistance in the municipal emergency animal assistance in the municipal emergency animal assistance in the municipal emergency animal assistance in the municipal emergency animal assistance in the municipal emergency animal assistance in the municipal emergency animal assistance in the municipal emergency animal assistance in the municipal emergency animal assistance in the municipal emergency animal assistance in the municipal emergency animal assistance in the municipal emergency animal assistance in the municipal emergency animal assistance in the municipal emergency animal assistance in the municipal emergency animal assistance in the municipal emergency animal assistance in the municipal emergency animal assistance in the municipal emergency animal assistance in the municipal emergency animal assistance in the municipal emergency animal assistance in the municipal emergency animal assistance in the municipal emergency animal assistance in the municipal emergency animal assistance
very well!
The theme of the existence of municipal units of rescue and animal rescue should not be considered within the framework of the Law of Bases of Civil Protection. It is a municipal decision. About the special duty of cooperation with the National Emergency and Civil Protection Authority (ANEPC): nothing obstacles, for the purposes of the municipal veterinarians, that may exist a special duty of cooperation of these with the National Emergency and Civil Protection Authority. Currently, ANEPC integrates the Special Civil Protection Force, a force of prevention and response to emergency situations and recovery of the normal life of the communities affected by serious accidents or disasters.
Additionally, its duties include the provision of veterinary care to wounded animals, and that will be best exercised in the municipal patamar of civil protection. It is important to take into account the existing entities with responsibilities in this area. The response regarding the protection of animals should be considered through the action of the municipalities, since, in the terms provided by the law, the municipalities have the obligation to have in their framework at least a veterinary doctor. Finally, I do a reference also to the Nature and Environment Protection Service, of the GNR, in particular, in the scope of the salvation and rescue of animals and in compliance with the legislation of the protection of the rights of the animals, which makes available for, already, the need for training of people in the civil protection of animals in the case of catastrophes.
very well!
For an intervention, has the word Mr. Deputy does not register Christina Rodrigues.
Deputies: Although these initiatives may have been driven by the tragedy of Santo Tirso, the truth is that the subject that I submit to them is not new. And, in fact, one thing is certain: something goes wrong, because if not so the tragedies that happened would not have had the so serious impact that they had. For example, taking now in this last intervention, almost a third of our country has no municipal veterinarian, which can be a relevant factor. The idea of the initiative I proposed is that a team in the middle of civil protection is to be created, giving the Government freedom to regulate as it finds appropriate.
For an intervention, he has the word to Mr. Deputy Maria Manuel Rola, of the Bloc de Esquerda.
Deputies: It is true that civil protection is our guarantor of protection in catastrophic situations and it is also the guarantor of goods and animals. And if it is necessary to structure an integrated response and, in addition to the National Civil Protection Authority itself, to a wide set of entities that improve the planning and prevention, it is also true that the mission must be attributed to civil protection and integrated in all spheres of its operation, guaranteeing the workers, the integration of the training and the preparation for this spheres. In this sense, the specialization process can, in fact, guarantee not only the participation of the National Association of Municipalities as well as the participation of the National Civil Protection Authority itself and to a wide set of entities that improve these initiatives. But if we do not take the initiative to guarantee that the civil protection and the
To close the debate, has the word to Mr. Inês Deputy of Sousa Real, of the PAN.
Deputies: Exactly when it is brought here a proposal that aims to integrate your veterinary doctors in the different spheres or dimensions of civil protection — and we cannot forget that it has a dimension not only municipal but also districtal and, often, at the level of the central government, a national scope — that it is fundamental to strengthen with who has the technical aptitude for the purpose, who are the veterinary doctors, it is not ceasing to be obviously curious that it is not true that it is not true that it is not true that it is not true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is true that it is
I didn’t hear anything! it was distracted.
There is, in fact, a problem related to the supervision. We recognize that same problem, but this is another matter, very far from that we are here today talking, and we cannot confuse and mix associations that seriously do their work with the case that happened in Santo Tirso, in which, indeed, this figure was used. Protests of the Deputy of PS Luís Moreira Testa. Despite the progress we made in this matter there are, in fact, lacunes that persist and that require us, as elected and elected, a concrete action in these matters.
I call your attention to the time.
I conclude already, Mr. President. And I can not stop invoking the words of Prof. Fernando Menezes Cordeiro who warns for the idea that there is an anomaly of values when we ignore animal suffering, made its parallel with our rights and our consciousness, since we are able not only to make the animals suffer as well as to avoid that suffering. We have the last time to look for this derogation from the legislation, the own status of the animals, which recognizes them as sensitive beings and recognizes them also a right of assistance.
Deputies, let’s now start to point 7 of the work order, the discussion, in general, of the Projects of Law No. 450/XIV/1.a (PEV) — Presentation of the ICNF’s report to the Assembly of the Republic, to monitor and strengthen the fulfilment of the national goal of reducing the area of eucalyptus in the forest space Law, 493/XIV/1.a (PAN) — Creates the Government’s follow-up committee for the surveillance, prevention and control of the natural regeneration of eucalyptus and invasive exotic lens and determines the preparation of a plan of control of the natural regeneration of eucalyptus and action for the surveillance and control of the exotic lens in the forest space, 493/XIV/1.a
Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies.
I call your attention to the time.
I am just ending, Mr. President. I said that these native species, because they have a high humidity content, are more fire-resilient. Faced with the evidence of the past and taking into account the accent of climate change and its extreme phenomena associated with climate change, it is, of course, important to take all measures to safeguard in the future the populations and to make our forest more resilient.
by André Silva.
Deputies: In recent years, the preventions and invasions are defined as eucalyptus and invasions are naturally implemented through the seeds deposited in the soil, in the burned areas, i.e. the species is naturalized as the flowers are naturalized, i.e. the flowers are naturalized as the flowers are naturalized as the flowers are naturalized as the flowers are naturalized as the flowers are naturalized as the flowers are naturalized as the flowers are naturalized as the flowers are naturalized as the flowers are naturalized as the flowers are naturalized as the flowers are naturalized as the flowers are naturalized as the flowers are naturalized as the flowers are naturalized as the flowers are naturalized.
I would like to draw your attention to the time used.
We can’t let the government’s inaction bring us more tragedies than that of three years ago.
And it is the only thing that you can do when you’re going to get a lot of money.
For example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example.
Deputy Joaquim Barreto, of the PS.
Deputies, as well as the draft law and the draft resolution on the matters related to the forest, as well as the draft law, as well as the draft law, as well as the draft law, as well as the draft law, as well as the draft law, as well as the draft law, as well as the draft law, as well as the draft law, as well as the draft law, as well as the draft law, as well as the draft law, as well as the draft law, as well as the draft law, as well as the draft law, as well as the draft law, as well as the draft law, as well as the draft law, as well as the draft law, as well as the draft law.
That is true!
However, we consider that, given the great importance of the forest sector for the country, all but all — forest producers, individually, companies of this area, associative movement and other entities — we must engage and push for the best results of the laws that the Deputies and governors do to make a forest with sustainable environmental dimension and that helps to give adequate responses, in economic and social terms, primarily to the populations that live there, creating wealth and value to combat the desertification and deforestation of the interior of Portugal.
Joao Dias, member of the PCP.
Deputies: I want to resolve what it is for us to forget that we are in the full season of fires and what it is for us to forget that we are in the full season of fires and what it is for us to forget that we are in the full season of fires and what it is for us to forget that we are in the full season of fires and what it is for us to forget that we are in the full season of fires and what it is for us to forget that we are in the full season of fires and what it is for us to forget that we are in the full season of fires and what it is for us to forget that we are in the full season of fires and what it is for us to forget that we are in the full season of fires and what it is for us to forget that we are in the full season of fires and what it is for us to forget that we
Deputy has to finish.
Mr. President, end up saying that the Portuguese forest and the people do not need propaganda. There will be no defense of the Portuguese forest without the respect for the small and medium producers and without the fair remuneration for the wood they produce.
Deputy Joao Moura, of the PSD, has the word for an intervention.
Deputies, all the the theories of the exalipse in the opposite are the contributions that enhance the abandonment of the territory, insofar as the flowers of the flowers of the flowers of the flowers of the flowers of the flowers of the flowers of the flowers of the flowers of the flowers of the flowers of the flowers of the flowers of the flowers of the flowers of the flowers.
This is your great love!
We all — all! — consume this role in the most varied forms. Even on paper, I am aware that also the gentlemen have engaged in campaigns to end plastic, incentive campaigns to replace plastic with... paper! Ironia. The gentlemen are not only paper consumers as they give you primacy in detriment of other products. Is the role that you consume is of another origin? This morning, cross me with some of your advertising outdoors spread throughout the city of Lisbon. They are printed on paper and remember the origin of that same paper.
The Greens are not on paper.
Deputies, enough of hypocrisy, enough of demagogy. Deputies Joaquim Barreto, the law already determines that there cannot be plantations of eucalyptus without the authorization of the competent public entities, aiming to control their expansion. I remember that, in parliamentary hearing, Mr. President of the Institute of Conservation of Nature and Forests assumed that his services had no response capacity because of lack of human and material resources. Now, the gentlemen want to increase the competences and work of this Institute when he assumes no longer have competence, neither means nor resources to give response to what he has in his hands.
You have the word to Mr. Deputy Cecilia Meireles, of the CDS-PP, for an intervention.
Mr. President: The projects that we discuss here start from some concerns that, I think, are those of all of us. First, the concern about the existence of support for rearborization, with their monitoring and above all, with the problem of forest arrangement, of the broadest arrangement of the territory. And more: all of us, we go through the country, we can verify that, in several of the burned areas, more or less to the abandonment, they grow spontaneously, above all, you eucalyptus, but also acas. We all realize that, in time, this means that those territories will be very susceptible to fire. In these concerns, I believe, there will be few differences, but this is the question that these projects go beyond the forest arrangement. This is the most preserved part of the forest arrangement that is in the
It is your love!
Accepting that this is a problem that causes the fires is not to realize that the territory and the forest, when they are clean and treated, fight the fires and do not have that problem. Deputies, because we divert in identifying the problem, we cannot follow these proposals and will also be difficult...
It is your passion!
Deputies remove the masks to be able to make overpower your voice to mine, even without a microphone, I have a lot of difficulty to finish my intervention, which, in other words, I think is being quite quiet. As to the production of reports, we have nothing against, but the creation of new public bodies with the aim of creating reports — growing almost like mushrooms or eucalyptus! — I don’t think it’s going to solve the problem of the forest or the fires, creating new problems for taxpayers.
I am very grateful, Mr. Deputy. Deputies know what is the unique objective of the mask. For an intervention to close the debate, you have the word to Mr. Deputy Mariana Silva.
Deputy João Moura, what beautiful declaration of love made to the eucalyptus. I think someone will want to see the declaration he just made, as well as the declaration of love to the plastic, what we already knew, since he voted against the Green’s project for the reduction of the plastic in our daily day. Keep the registration for later. Deputy said, it was only the supervision and an action on the uncontrolled and spontaneous growth of the eucalyptus. Uncontrolled and spontaneous! I didn’t talk against any producer or the plantation of the eucalyptus, I talked about the spontaneous discontinuation, which unfortunately continues to happen, since there are fires that repeat every year. After the fire, the dramatic discontinuation comes on the uncontrolled and spontaneous
Here is the difference!
It is urgent to proceed to the start of the eucalyptus and to claim measures to prevent the natural regeneration of the eucalyptus, which occurred and occurs in an uncontrolled and wild way, increasing the risk and vulnerability of the territories, in increasingly shorter cycles of fires. With the fires of 2017, it became evident the need to reverse the paradigm of decades of disadvantaged policies of the real needs of the interior, of rural areas, of the interfaces and of forest spaces, promoting an adequate management of the territory, with a forest arrangement that cannot impact on a zone of monocultures, literally over agglomerates, but rather, on a management that has the basis of the diversification of species in the most resilient populations, we all advise for this.
Members of the Autonomous Regions who followed the work by technological means.
Deputies of the Autonomous Region of Madeira: Olavo Câmara, elected by the PS, and Sérgio Marques, elected by the PSD.
Deputies, I go all to read the agenda of the plenary meeting tomorrow night and debate, which will take place at 10 p.m. On the first point we will have the discussion of the Law Proposal No. 55/XIV/1.a (GOV) — Authorizes the Government to legislate in the field of prevention and investigation of railway accidents, partially transposing the Law (EU) 2016/798. On the second point we will follow the discussion of the Law Proposal No. 55/XIV/1.a (GOV) — Authorizes the Government to legislate in the field of the proposal No. 51/XIV/1.a (GOV) — Authorizes the Government to legislate in the field of the proposal No. 51/XIV/1.a (GOV) — Authorizes the Government to legislate in the field of
First of all, I wanted to congratulate the new leadership of the PSD Parliamentary Group, yesterday elected, especially its President, Adão Silva, to whom I give my congratulations. We hope that the fruitful work, together, can continue.
Deputies, the Commission of Transparency and Statute of Deputies issued the following opinion: “The returns of Deputies Jamila Bárbara Madeira and Madeira, José Apolinário Nunes Portada and Susana de Fátima Carvalho Amador meet the legal requirements, ceasing Célia Maria Marques da Rosa Paz, Francisco José Pereira de Oliveira and Paulo Jorge Duarte Marques, from 18 September 2020, including; and the suspension of Marina Sola Gonçalves meets the legal requirements, being replaced by Sílvia Manuela Carneiro Amorim Torres, from 18 September 2020, including.”
Deputies, we will vote the opinion. Submitted to the vote, it was approved by unanimously, recording the absence of the PAN, the PEV, the CH and the unregistered Deputies Cristina RodrigueseJoacine Katar Moreira. Before we enter our agenda, I warn that, as it has been usual, the checks are already ongoing for quorum purposes. Deputies can and should register quickly. We start with the discussion, in general, of the Law No. 55/XIV/1.a (GOV) — Authorizes the Government to legislate in the field of prevention and investigation of railway accidents, partially transposing the Directive (EU) 2016/798.
For the purposes of this Agreement of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament and of the
I am a member of the European Parliament and I am a member of the European Parliament and I am a member of the European Parliament.
State Secretaries: We are discussing a bill, the Government, which arises from the transposition of a road safety directive...
The Railway!
This directive determines that certain types of accidents and incidents are investigated, in each Member State, by an independent entity. In some way, this directive and, now, this proposal of law come to correct something that has already been corrected for a long time, which has to do precisely with the access to the video surveillance images that may exist at the site of the incident or accident. This is very important for an investigation, as it is too obvious. But the Government, in this matter, also delayed, because it has passed the deadline of the directive, which should have been transposed for a long time. This assessment must be done, at any time, by the Government in functions, that must not pass deadlines, that must not be left for the end of the investigation, because this matter, as well as the law, that is not the proposal of the incident or
Deputy Carlos Silva for an intervention.
Deputies: What is the importance of the process, what is the importance of the process, what is the importance of the process, what is the importance of the process, what is the importance of the process, what is the importance of the process, what is the importance of the process, what is the importance of the process, what is the importance of the process, what is the importance of the process, what is the importance of the process, what is the importance of the process, what is the importance of the process.
You have the word to Mr. Deputy Isabel Pires, of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, for an intervention.
On this matter, we have had some problems that are not new in this matter, on this matter, on this matter, on this matter, on this matter, on this matter, on this matter, on this matter, on this matter, on this matter, on this matter, on this matter, on this matter, on this matter, on this matter, on this matter, on this matter, on this matter, on this matter, on this matter, on this matter, on this matter, on this matter, on this matter, on this matter, on this matter, on this matter, on this matter.
This is the question of the Parliamentary Group of Deputy Hugo Carvalho.
Deputy Adão Silva in the present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present present
Deputy André Ventura, from Chega, for an intervention.
Mr. President, I start also by congratulating Deputy Adão Silva for his election, hoping that his mandate runs with the best success. We are carrying a directive that long ago we should have transposed, in legislative matters. We have about 20 accidents before 2011 that continue under investigation and we have 18 serious cases that, later in 2011, have not yet been completed: 20 and 18, two numbers that are not even sustainable with an investigation that is desired quickly and that, in most European Union countries, can develop already in a fast and effective way. Therefore, it is a directive that can lead us to a path that we should have to do: video surveillance images, as well as the strengthening of some investigation media, are fundamental. But there is to say that, in the prevention matter, this government, but it is not even sustainable with an investigation that, in
The Deputy.
I will finish, Mr. President. This tells a lot about what, for the Government, is rail safety. It is necessary to increase the resources and it is necessary to improve the research, but it is to be done already and not in more than 10 years.
Member of the Parliament, André Silva.
Deputies: The prevention of the railway accidents has not been extended four times this month the railway accidents has not been extended four times this month the railway accidents has not been extended four times this month the railway accidents has not been extended four times this month the railway accidents has not been extended four times this month the railway accidents has not been extended four times this month the railway accidents has not been extended four times this month the railway accidents has not been extended four times this month the railway accidents has not been extended four times this month the railway accidents has not been extended four times this month the railway accidents has not been extended four times this month the railway accidents has not been extended four times this month the railway accidents has not been ext
If you are a member of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board.
It is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of
Deputy Carlos Silva, of the PSD Parliamentary Group Mr. Carlos Silva (PSD):  Mr. President, in relation to this argument that the railway situation is due to the successive Governments, that the current Government will be responsible for using as a response, would like to say only two things. First, as to the lack of collaborators, in 2014, the GPIAAF and the IMT warned for the lack of technicians in this area. The Government then left open a competition for 100 professionals. The next Minister in the tutela, Pedro Marques, put the competition in the bag. Therefore, as to the lack of workers, was precisely on the table a process of hiring workers. Second, as to the findings in retardation, this Government, as the previous, took the facts in 2016, the GPIAAF and the IMT warned for the lack of technicians
In this moment, there is a concordance and unanimousness regarding the importance of the GPIAAF to have access to the images — the issue that our proposal law aims to solve. For that was implemented in the contest in the following forms, I think of the question that was placed, I think of the area of the question that was placed, I think of the area of the question that was placed, I think of the area that was placed, I think of the area that was placed, I think of the area that was placed, I think of the area that was placed, I think of the area that was placed, I think of the area that was placed, I think of the area that was placed.
Secretary of State of Infrastructure:  Asbestos does not interfere with the safety of any train, it is a public health problem that is being solved.
We pass to the second point of the consignment of the workers in the framework of the provisions of the law and the provisions of the law and the provisions of the law and the provisions of the law and the provisions of the law and the provisions of the law and the provisions of the law and the provisions of the law and the provisions of the law and the provisions of the law and the provisions of the law and the provisions of the law and the provisions of the law and the provisions of the law and the provisions of the law and the provisions of the law and the provisions of the law and the provisions of the law and the provisions of the law and the provisions of the law and the provisions of the law.
It has the word, for an intervention highlight, that the Deputy Government has given the time that the Government has given the time that it has given the time that it has given the time that it has given the time that it has given the time that it has given the time that it has given the time that it has given the time that it has given the time that it has given the time that it has given the time that it has given the time that it has given the time that it has given the time that it has given the time that it has given the time that it has given the time that it has given the time that it has given the time that it has given the time that it has given the time that it has given the time that it has given the time that it has given the time that it has given the time that it has given the time.
We have even seen the incident that happened last week: the government, in the Council of Ministers, in a kind of approval, in general, refers to the disfacing of the working hours now, to apply in time of pandemic, but only then it will consult the social partners, who felt unthinked for only being heard after this government decision.
This is not true!
Secretary of State, let me tell you that it is not worth opposing me...
Is it not true? is it not true!
In addition, to the council, in this matter of the departure of workers, to consult the opinion of the CIP (Commercial Confederation of Portugal), the opinion of the UGT (General Union of Workers), the opinion of the CGTP (General Confederation of Portuguese Workers), where you will see that the PSD has right.
It is not true! it is not true!
Secretaries of State, in this matter of the deployment of workers, the gentlemen have to have the ability to write an appropriate decree-law, where they have to better define the scope of the deployment of workers, have to have the ability to, in the legislation, better prevent the non-compliance, have to have the ability to sanction when these breaches of legislation occur, have to have also the appeal to better inform both the companies, the workers, the public bodies and yet — a very important aspect — have to have the ability to put the Portuguese Public Administration to contribute more and better, either with the countries of origin of the workers that we receive here to fill our labour needs, want to with the countries where our workers are also forgotten.
... because, if this articulation between workers, employers, public bodies and political decision makers is well done, this work will work. The work is always unfinished when we refer to improving the protection and rights of workers, but there is a lot to do. What the government has to do is to give the best example of close proximity to workers, give the best example of close proximity and hearing to companies,...
I ask you to conclude, Mr.
I think it’s a good thing to do, and I’m a good thing to do, I’m a good thing to do, I’m a good thing to do.
It has the word, for an intervention, Mrs. Deputy Diana Ferreira, of the Parliamentary Group of the PCP.
For example, if you are a member of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board,
You have the word to Mr. Deputy Inês of Sousa Real, from the PAN, for an intervention.
For example, if you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company.
Deputy José Soeiro, of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, for an intervention.
There is a long history of the use of the dumping and the rest of the time, there is a long history of the rest of the time, there is a long history of the rest of the time, there is a long history of the rest of the time, there is a long history of the rest of the time, there is a long history of the rest of the time, there is a long history of the rest of the time, there is a long history of the rest of the time, there is a long history of the rest of the time, there is a long history of the rest of the time, there is a long history of the rest of the rest of the time, there is a long history of the rest of the rest of the time, there is a long history of the rest of the rest of the rest of the rest of the rest of the rest of the rest of the rest of the rest of the rest of the rest of the rest
The Deputy.
Finally, knowing also that there is a great distance between written law and law in practice, we hope that this review can be a step in strengthening the rights of those who work.
Deputy Joao Almeida.
We are discussing the legislative authorisation so that the Government can make this transposition late and on this the only thing we have to say is that the Government can make this transposition late because it has two years to be considered to be the law and has not made it in that period. It should be said that in Portugal it can only make this transposition because it can not make this transposition because it can not make this transposition because it can not make this transposition because it can not make this transposition because it can not make this transposition because it can not make this transposition because it can not make this transposition because it can not make this transposition because it can not make this transposition because it can not make this transposition because it can not make this transposition because it can not make this transposition because it can not make this transposition because it can not make this transposition because it can not make this transposition because it can be
It is a good idea for you to be able to do it, but it is a good idea for you to do it.
She is Mara Coelho.
I apologize Mr. Deputy.
For example, if you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company.
Everyone has spoken!
I also want to say that the Socialist Party trusts companies, the Portuguese, to apply, in the best terms, this directive and we understand that the thousands of Portuguese workers who are deployed outside Portugal see their position strengthened and safeguarded with the application of this directive in the Member States, with greater protection, opposing abusive practices that we all know that exist and safeguarding that the same work, performed in the same place, must be remunerated in the same way.
Secretary of State for Social Security, Gabriel Bastos. Secretary of State. Deputies: I begin, of course, to thank you for the comments you have made here and the contributions you have made with regard to this bill, registering with pleasure that, with regard to the essential core of this legislation and which reflects the review of the European Union Directive, there is some consensus regarding the progress achieved by this way and that we intend to reflect in the internal legal order, strengthening the rights of workers, making this protection more effective in a field that we all recognize that it raises particular difficulties.
Secretary of State, I call you attention to the time. Secretary of State of Social Security: — Mr. President, I’m going to finish, but I just want to say, because this question has also been signaled with regard to the timetable, Mr. Deputy, that it’s not true that it has been done in this way. What has been a preliminary assessment within the framework of the Government and an approval in general, precisely for then to be ausculted the social partners about this solution.
For the purposes of this Agreement and the provisions of this Agreement and the provisions of this Agreement and the provisions of this Agreement and the provisions of this Agreement and the provisions of this Agreement and the provisions of this Agreement and the provisions of this Agreement and the provisions of this Agreement and the provisions of this Agreement and the provisions of this Agreement and the provisions of this Agreement and the provisions of this Agreement and the provisions of this Agreement and the provisions of this Agreement and the provisions of this Agreement and the provisions of this Agreement and the provisions of this Agreement and the provisions of this Agreement and the provisions of this Agreement and the provisions of this Agreement and the provisions of this Agre
Member of the Liberal Initiative, João Cotrim de Figueiredo.
Deputies: Adding another temptation to the State is what this Sant Proposal of Law No. 47/XIV/1.a (GOV) and, moreover, the Proposal of Law No. 52/XIV/1.a (GOV), which we will discuss next, intend to do. This time, it is the Ministry of the Environment that wants a new rural landscape and who does not agree to risk the socialist income less that the people can do the socialist income less that the name says almost everything. The Government, with this legislative authorization, wants to profoundly change the extent of the power of the State, which passes from the power to interfere in abandoned lands and without the owner known to the power to decide how to be managed landscapes whose owner is known, but that does not manage the word that the state is to do
Joao Dias, member of the PCP.
For example, if you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company.
I would like to draw your attention to the time used.
I’m not sure if you’re going to get a lot of money, but if you’re going to get a lot of money, you’re going to get a lot of money.
Deputy Joao Marques of the PSD.
For example, if you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company.
For an intervention, you have the word to Mr. Inês Deputy of Sousa Real.
For example, if you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company.
For a statement, Mr. Cecilia Meireles has the word.
Deputies: As we know, in Portugal, territorial management and, above all, forest management suffers from chronic problems. Therefore, the solution of these problems requires stability and not constant changes in regimes — in addition, it would not only talk about changes in regimes, it would even talk about changes in custody, so what has not been is stability. The solution today proposed, the forced lease, is absolutely a solution-limit and must have on the other hand a strong interest that is the safeguard of the safety and life of the populations. A solution of these can only be applied or considered after exhausted all the other options and, above all, all the other positive incentives for the owners that do not comply with their obligations.
It is true!
Therefore, we are dedicating a regime that forces the owners to rent the land that is your seems to me absolutely disproportionate in these conditions. More: I liked to draw attention to the seriousness of what today we are here discussing and that is the proposal to force people to rent their land for tens of years. What the Government comes here to propose is a proposal of law of legislative authorization without a single opinion. The gentlemen are asking these 230 Deputies to pass a white check for the Government to force people to rent their land without presenting a single opinion, a single hearing! Secretary of State, what is here to propose is absolutely unacceptable!
very well!
Therefore, at the minimum of the minimum, what is required is the demonstration of the weighing interest of the other side, exhausted all the other options, and a weighing that has to be the Parliament to do, so we cannot pass a white cheque to the Government.
Deputy Deputy Pedro do Carmo.
There are several different types of cookies that can be used in order to ensure that you have access to our website, and there are several different types of cookies that can be used in order to ensure that you have access to our website, and there are several different types of cookies that can be used in order to ensure that you have access to our website, and there are several different types of cookies that can be used in order to ensure that you have access to our website.
by André Ventura.
This is the most important thing that we have to do in our world, and we have to do in our world.
Exactly!
Deputy be so favorable to a proposal like this. Deputy: the truth is that behind wanting to solve the problems of forest and abandonment, this regime becomes flagrantly unconstitutional when it provides a kind of forced lease in which it is said that whoever does not adhere to the model of management — and the words are these: to the model of management — can be forced to lease. to the model of management, my God...!? not to whoever has the land abandoned is to whoever does not adhere to the model of management! This is flagrantly unconstitutional! Worse, it is said so: whoever cannot be notified is also forced to lease. This is Venezuela or Cuba is transvested in any way?
The Deputy.
and the spirit of the Constitution.
Live the Constitution!
This regime, even if approved in this Assembly, will shock with the Constitutional Court, because in no civilized country in the world you can be forced to rent when you can’t be notified or when you don’t adhere to a management model.
Deputy Ricardo Vicente of the Left Bloc.
For the purposes of this Agreement of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament
Secretary of State João Catarino.
Deputies: Let me two or three reflections. First, the most important and that summarizes 90% of the answers to your interventions is this: what is provided in this diploma is that we will only arrend in the necessary way — “forced” is the term that is in the law, so it is the “forced”, but it should be in the “necessary” way — when the State, before that, say “we have the project here, we have the money here, we will pay for 20 years all the intervention,” and even so the owner say “the land is mine, I don’t let it do.” It is only in these circumstances.
That’s true! that’s true!
We have, today, a country in which we have had public investment and we have had up to money from the PDR (Rural Development Program) to the forest. It’s true. Just we have the problem here and we put the money there. It’s what we want to avoid! What we want is to put the money where the problem is. This is the Landscape Transformation Program, dear Deputies! It’s for that we defend it. My friends, have, with this proposal, a good opportunity to look for the southern inner pinhal, to look for the vulnerable territories, which have been classified as vulnerable, and so to say: “It’s necessary money there, it’s necessary more public investment, we have to put the money there.” It’s that we want to put the money there, where the IRR is the problem. It’s that we want to put the
Secretary of State.
Mr. Deputy Cecilia Meireles says it’s disproportionate. disproportionate are the forest fires and their size. That’s that it’s disproportionate! Demonstrations of CDS-PP Deputy Cecilia Meireles.
The Secretary of State, you still have 45 seconds.If you want to use them, you have the word.
We have a country, a substantial part of the country, my dear friends, that needs... Even from the utopian point of view, that forest would be completely clean, no one could guarantee that it will not burn the same way it burned last week. Don’t have any doubts. We must succeed in having the courage to have different recipes and to do something substantially different. We have a country, a substantial part of the country, my dear friends, that needs... Even from the utopian point of view, that forest would be completely clean, no one could guarantee that it will not burn the same way it burned last week. This is because the occupation of the soil there is completely incompatible with the climate change, with the orography. That is, or we begin to transform the landscape and the occupation of the soil in those territories of
Secretary of State, let me a repair that has to do with the language you used and that I know it was not proposed. I thank you for not using terms such as “Dear friends” or “you.” Here, the language has its dignity and is the dignity of the Parliament and the Government itself. Secretary of State, which was not proposed. Deputies, we now go to the next point of our agenda, which deals with the discussion of the Bill No. 52/XIV/1.a (GOV) — Authorizes the Government to approve a special regime applicable to the expropriation and the constitution of administrative servitudes. Secretary of State of Conservation of Nature, the Forests and the Order of the Territory, John Catino.
Mr. President, I apologize, for the language I used. It was for enthusiasm, no doubt. I apologize immense. Deputies: The pandemic caused by the SARS-CoV-2 virus, in addition to consisting in a serious public health emergency, which was necessary to respond in the sanitary plan, caused numerous consequences of economic and social order, which also demanded and demand the Government the adoption of a wide range of exceptional measures. Overcome the critical phase of the emergency, the Government, immediately, identified the need to define a framework of interventions that guarantees a progressive stabilization in the economic and social plans, without discouraging the sanitary. In fact, in the first instance, the goal was to control the pandemic and social order, which also demanded and demanded the Government to
I think it’s a good thing to do, I think it’s a good thing to do, I think it’s a good thing to do.
As it was, to say, to be, to be, to be, to be, to be, to be, to be, to be, to be, to be, to be, to be, to be, to be, to be, to be, to be, to be, to be, to be, to be.
Deputy José Cancela Moura, of the PSD, for an intervention.
Deputies: The Government is seeking a legislative authorisation so urgent of legislation that a legislative authorisation so difficult that a legislative authorisation so difficult that a legislative authorisation so difficult that a legislative authorisation so difficult that a legislative authorisation so difficult that a legislative authorisation so difficult that a legislative authorisation so difficult that a legislative authorisation so difficult that a legislative authorisation so difficult that a legislative authorisation so difficult that a legislative authorisation so difficult that a legislative authorisation so difficult that a legislative authorisation so difficult that a legislative authorisation so difficult that a legislative authorisation so difficult that a legislative authorisation so difficult that a legislative authorisation so difficult that a legislative authorisation so difficult that a legislative authorisation so difficult.
Oh the!
On the other hand, as it prevails consensual in the current jurisprudence that the government's acknowledgment system disproports the right to possess this property is not incompatible with the compression of that right, as long as these restrictions appear proportional in relation to the realization of a purpose of public utility, which, in the specific case, can also hurt the principle of neither expropriate nor the principle of proportionality, which is still consecrated in paragraph 2 of Article 18 of the Constitution, the expropriate expropriate expropriate expropriate expropriate expropriate.
I call your attention to the time.
But, in a rule of law, it cannot be worth everything, especially when it is concerned the protection of citizens’ confidence.
and there!
The PSD is against this kind of confiscation, against this dangerous arbitration, against this denial of the rule of law!Forgive me the common place, but it is a diploma without PEES — read the Economic and Social Stabilization Program — neither head.
There is a Gunscape in every corner!
Deputy Joao Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the word for an intervention.
Deputies: Here is another temptational proposal. We already knew that parties such as the Portuguese Communist Party and the Left Bloc have horror to private property, but we got to know that this Socialist Party Government also has zero consideration for private property. It is absolutely unbelievable that this law, manifestly unconstitutional, denying respect for private property and the principle of proportionality, can be approved in this Parliament! It is absolutely unacceptable that it is even put to approve a law that makes the expropriations, within the framework of the PEES, in a completely discretionary act, which makes the declaration of public utility in a completely arbitrary act, without the need for fundamentation, and which ignores the expropriates, which are not held in the process of expropriation, which makes this right to dispro
Mr. Cecilia Meireles, of the CDS-PP, has the word for an intervention.
Secretary of State, I liked to tell you that it was important that we, to have here discussions, talk. Deputies.”No, it is not! Secretary of State and the Government chose to present here, whether in the previous point or in this, are proposals of authorisation law, i.e. proposals in which either we take the carimbo and the thing goes as it is or we vote against.It is so!This is precisely the instrument that the Government chooses when it is not available to discuss with the Deputies and so that the speciality of the proposal of law is made in the Parliament and not through an authorized decree-law.
This is now!
From an administrative point of view, what comes with this proposal of law is much more shocking than what it proposes in the previous. In relation to the previous, I understand what is the public interest and I understand that what is on the table is the issue of forest fires. What comes here proposes, although it seems to me that the final intention until it can be that, is much broader than that. What comes here proposes is a regime of expropriations that is applicable to everything and anything that has to do with the PEES. I explain with the following phrase of the proposal of law: “The secrets of the property and the rights inherent to the construction, rehabilitation, rehabilitation, rehabilitation, rehabilitation, rehabilitation, rehabilitation, rehabilitation, rehabilitation, rehabilitation, rehabilitation, rehabilitation, rehabilitation, rehabilitation, rehabilitation, rehabilitation, rehabilitation,
very well!
It is now the word, for an intervention, Mr. Deputy Rita Borges Madeira, of the PS.
For example, if you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company.
President José Manuel Pureza of the Left Bloc.
Deputies: This legislative authorisation aims – already here has been mentioned – to accelerate the conditions for the public investment to be realised, within the framework of the Economic and Social Stabilization Program, for very concrete objectives and works, such as the removal of asbestos, interventions in the hydrographic and railway networks, urban rehabilitation, expansion of the social equipment network, accessibility of persons with disabilities, all this. I want to say what, at this moment, it seems essential to me, from our part: not because of the lack of acceleration that they cease to realize these public investments. It is imperative, now more than ever, that the money, instead of going to the New Bank, goes to where you have to go.
It is now in the new bank.
It’s just the money has to go for investments of this kind. deputy Cancela Moura.
And it is!
Now, it is clear that acceleration has to have limits — obviously yes! — that we have to have all the caution in the sense of avoiding that it turns back to the favour of private entities that are involved in these works — of course yes! — but those who rise to criticize or to be against the acceleration of public investment have never said a word against the acceleration of public rescue of private banks. That’s what is called “true ideological prejudice.” “On all private property weighs a social mortgage” — the phrase is not mine, it’s of someone that the bankates most right often quote with fever and respect.
Deputy António Filipe of the PCP.
Deputies: This Program of Economic and Social Stabilization, called “PEES”, provides some shifts. Deputy José Cancela Moura, recently, referred to him saying that he had no feet or head. From our point of view, it is not the case, although we also think that, in moments of exceptionality, it should not be legalized with the feet diplomas that touch in sensitive matters. It is also not the case. We do not subscribe to the tremendous interventions that were made by the right parties, which, in addition, commovently, invoked the Constitution. Deputy, who now is not here, invoked the Constitution, but usually affirms to the four winds his opposition, because it-this is something famous to consider, this does not consider that the Republic, this does not want to defend the Republic with a
very well!
In fact, we are dealing with a matter that is regulated in the Constitution and in the law, and well regulated, being dealing with, including, the rights of the owners of the law, or others are dealing with, that is dealing with, that is dealing with, that is dealing with, that is dealing with, that is dealing with, that is dealing with, that is dealing with, that is dealing with, that is dealing with, that is dealing with, that is dealing with.
The Deputy.
We don’t challenge the foundations of this bill, but we consider that, despite all, there are some aspects that should be clarified in the authorized law decree so that no difficulties arise, which,, the Government will not want.
State Secretary of Conservation of Nature, Forests and Territory Order, João Catarino.
Deputy António Filipe that we agree with the need for a degree of this kind to have, effectively, a temporary scope and it is our intention, if this degree comes to be approved, that it has, of course, a temporary scope. Given that the Economic and Social Stabilization Program is a program with a very limited temporary scope and with a set of administrative and a significant financial envelope, it is important that we are able to execute, during this temporary period, this set of significant works. Knowing all of us the fact that the litigation, within the scope of public procurement competitions, to be today more and more usual, so say, it is important for us that we are able to quickly implement these works. We are talking about the works of interruption scope and with a set of administrative investments and a significant financial envel
This point of our work order, we go to the fifth point, which consists in the assessment, in general, of the Law No. 53/XIV/1.a (GOV) — Creates the extraordinary process of viabilization of companies.
For example, if you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company; if you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company; if you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company; if you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company; if you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company; if you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company; if you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company; if you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company; if you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company; if you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company; if you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company; if you are a member of the company
There is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there
I am a member of the European Union and I am a member of the European Union.
According to the State Secretaries: The Government brings here a measure that does not forecast a measure that does not forecast a measure that does not forecast a measure that does not forecast a measure that does not forecast a measure that does not forecast a measure that does not forecast a measure that does not forecast a measure that does not forecast a measure that does not forecast a measure that does not forecast a measure that does not forecast a measure that does not forecast a measure that does not forecast a measure that does not forecast a measure that does not forecast a measure that does not forecast a measure that does not forecast a measure that does not forecast a measure that does not forecast a measure that does not
If you want to finish, please.
So, and to end, I would say that what the Government presents does not ruin, but does not resolve.
It has the word, for an intervention, Mr. Deputy Joana Sá Pereira, of the PS.
Deputies: It is in the moments of the greatest uncertainty in our lives that we must expect from who leads us concrete answers and immediate actions.
It is true!
And that’s what, in the background, we’ve come to see. The first response to this crisis has placed its focus, obviously, on the health issue, but never, never, left off the issue of support to, to employment and to workers. The path we have made is of many doubts, we know, but it’s also important to highlight some certainty. Without a capable and robust economic and social response, we’d be witnessing — in addition, as it has already happened in the past — an irreversible destruction, and in mass, of jobs and the productive capacity of our companies. One of the greatest challenges to face this crisis is even the protection of employment and the companies. And, therefore, we highlight the various mechanisms of support to the enterprise, to the level of liquidity, to the level of capital, that
The problem is there is no balloon.
After the important reform that the Capital Program brought to the processes of insolvency and recovery of enterprises, we must now give a response to a very concrete problem: what to do to the viable enterprises that are in a real economic situation of difficult or insolvency in the necessity of the assertion of the assertion of the assertion of the assertion of the assertion of the assertion of the assertion of the assertion of the assertion of the assertion of the assertion of the assertion of the assertion of the assertion of the assertion of the assertion of the assertion of the assertion of the assertion of the assertion of the assertion of the assertion of the assertion of the assertion of the assertion of the assertion of the ass
For an intervention, has the word Mr. Deputy Marcia Passos, of the PSD.
There is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is
For an intervention, he has the word to Mr. Deputy Isabel Pires, of the Left Bloc.
For example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example, for example.
You have to finish, please.
For example, it would be time to put the IAPMEI (Agence for Competitiveness and Innovation) to the service of the economy and create early warning mechanisms for companies in difficulty, so that they don’t have to reach this point. Secretary of State, that this proposal of law punishes for insisting on this mechanism that has turned out, in the past, very harmful and that raises us many doubts. We will obviously, as always, be available for the debate, but we have serious doubts about the use of a mechanism so similar to another that has been so harmful over the past years.
Deputy António Filipe of the PCP.
This is the most important part of the world’s economy, the most important part of the world’s economy, the most important part of the world’s economy, the most important part of the world’s economy, the most important part of the world’s economy, the most important part of the world’s economy, the most important part of the world’s economy, the most important part of the world’s economy, the most important part of the world’s economy, the most important part of the world’s economy, the most important part of the world’s economy, the most important part of the world’s economy, the most important part of the world’s economy, the most important part of the world’s economy, and the most important part of the world’s economy.
Deputy André Ventura, from Chega.
Deputies: This proposal that the Government brings us has two dimensions, one policy and another legal. The political proposal is obvious: it is about extending the deadline for the recovery system of companies, which we have to recognize that it has a merit, that of the prohibition of the suspension of essential services, such as water, light, etc. It is something that long ago should have been done in companies in these situations. But it was not beyond, how could it have gone, as, for example, in the exemption of the fees, as noted by the Order of Lawyers. We could have done much more in this matter, especially for companies that are feeling in the skin the asphyxia of the crisis. And not only: for example, in terms of recovery of credit, we shouldn’t have defracted the position of creditors that they should have made all of these
I call your attention to the time.
Mr. President António Filipe: It doesn’t come bad to the world if this standard is approved, but we’re far from what we should be.
Member of the Liberal Initiative, João Cotrim de Figueiredo.
Deputies: The Liberal Initiative defends, and will always defend, measures that can reduce bureaucracy and facilitate life to people and, which, it is worth remembering to the extreme left, are created by people and where people work with the same rights and duties of any one of us, and are not second citizens. Even paraminister Costa Silva acknowledges that are the companies and not the State who produces the wealth of time that the government will recover the taxes that the gentlemen so much like to collect. Therefore, we will support this proposal that accelerates the mechanisms of recovery of. In the Liberal Initiative, if it is to avoid the closure of companies in difficult economic situation due to the pandemic, we are favorable; if it is to help the treasury, distributing the companies in the faster form of the
We are now going to the closing phase of this debate.Secretary of State and Justice, Mário Belo Morgado.
In the course of the legislative process and of all the constructive dialogue that is inherent to it, it will be possible, surely, to accommodate contributions and suggestions, in line with what is usually happening in this House that is the headquarters of our democracy. Sayo of this Assembly with a stronger conviction. The emergency of international public health caused by the COVID-19 has determined the paralysis of a wide set of economic activities, creating for the companies a situation of financial constraint based on the lack of liquidity, which has prevented the momental fulfilment of many obligations already overcome. The situation we live is characterized by an accentuated breakdown of production and consumption, and consequently, by the process of a particular flux of public health caused by the COVID-19 has determined that the government is not
Deputies, from the sixth point of our work order consists, without time to debate, the Annual Report of the Board of Supervision of the DNA Perfect Database relating to the year 2019. So, we pass to the following point, the of the regimental votes, since, as I mentioned recently, there was and there is a quorum of deliberation. Deputies, we have several voting projects, some of which presented by the PAR. I ask Mr. Secretary Deputies Helga Correia please read the Voting Project No. 312/XIV/2.a (presented by the PAR and subscribed by the PS, by the PSD, by the PAN, by the CH, by the Deputies not registered Cristina Rodrigues and by the PCP) — by the failure of Fernanda Lapa.
Deputies, the project of voting is from the following thesis: “The art of the art of the art of the art of the art of the art of the art of the art of the art of the art of the art of the art of the art of the art of the art of the art of the art of the art of the art of the art of the art of the art of the art of the art of the art of the art of the art of the art of the art of the art of the art of the art of the art of the art of the art of the art of the art of the art of the art of the art of the art of the art of the art.
I am very grateful, Mr. Secretary Helga Correia. Deputies, we will vote the deliberative part of the voting project that has just been read. Submitted to the vote, it has been approved by unanimously. I now ask Mr. Secretary Deputy Maria da Luz Rosinha the favour to read the Voting Project No. 313/XIV/2.a (presented by the PAR and subscribed by the PS, the PSD, the PAN, the CH and the non-inscribed Deputy Cristina Rodrigues) — De regret for the death of Nikias Skapinakis.
Deputies, the censorship project is of the following thesis: “In the past day the Niki’s pleasant painting, the country’s pleasant painting, a pleasant painting, a pleasant painting, a pleasant painting, a pleasant painting, a pleasant painting, a pleasant painting, a pleasant painting, a pleasant painting, a pleasant painting, a pleasant painting, a pleasant painting, a pleasant painting, a pleasant painting, a pleasant painting, a pleasant painting, a pleasant painting, a pleasant painting, a pleasant painting, a pleasant painting, a pleasant painting, a pleasant painting, a pleasant painting, a ple
It is the most important part of the world in the world, and it is the most important part of the world in the world, and it is the most important part of the world in the world.
Deputies, the draft vote is of the following content: “He failed on the past day 31 August, António Monteiro de Almeida Taborda. Born in 1934, in Gavión, district of Portalegre, António Taborda was a prominent figure of opposition to the previous regime, with active participation, in particular, in the electoral campaign of General Humberto Delgado, in 1958, and later, in the presidential memory of the Academic crisis of Coimbra. After the 25 April, António Taborda was Deputy to the Assembly of the Republic, in the II, III and IV Sessions of Legislatures, elected by the MDP/CDE, by the electoral circle of Porto. As a lawyer, he distinguished himself as defendant of political prisoners during the New State, and in the
It is the most important part of the world’s economy, and it is the most important part of the world’s economy, and it is the most important part of the world’s economy, and it is the most important part of the world’s economy.
Deputies, the project of voting is from the following threshold: “Vicente Jorge Silva wants his full-fledged representative to his representative to his representative to his representative to his representative to his representative to his representative to his representative to his representative to his representative to his representative to his representative to his representative to his representative to his representative to his representative to his representative to his representative to his representative to his representative to his representative to his representative to his representative to his representative to his representative to his representative.
We passed to the Voting Project No. 306/XIV/1.a (presented by the PSD, the PS and the CDS-PP) — Unfortunately for the death of Maria Eduarda Azevedo, to whom I join as President of the Assembly of the Republic, expressing, directly, to the family and friends who meet present in the gallery, my condolences and the sadness with which I stayed for the death of our former Deputy.
Deputies, the draft voting is of the following content: “Falished in the past day the President Maria Regvedida in the House of Representatives of the House of Representatives of the House of Representatives of the House of Representatives of the House of Representatives of the House of Representatives of the House of Representatives of the House of Representatives of the House of Representatives of the House of Representatives of the House of Representatives of the House of Representatives of the House of Representatives of the House of Representatives of the House of Representatives of the House of Representatives of the House of Representatives of the House of Representatives of the House of Representatives of the House of Representatives of the House of Representatives of the House of Representatives of the House of Representatives of Representatives of the House of
We have the Voting Project No. 308/XIV/1.a (presented by the PSD, by the BE, by the PCP, by the PEV, by the PS, by the CDS-PP, by the PAN, by the CH, by the IL and by the unregistered Deputies Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira) — De pesar for the death in service of the firefighter Pedro Daniel Ferreira, to which the President of the Assembly of the Republic also associates.
Deputies, the draft vote is of the following content: “On the 7th of September, during the fighting operations to a rural fire in the town of Antelas, in the council of Oliveira de Frades, the firefighter Pedro Daniel Ferreira, 38 years old, died. Pedro Daniel Ferreira, the professional firefighter of the Voluntary Firefighter Corps of Oliveira de Frades that integrated the Permanent Intervention Team (EIP), ended by losing his life tragically in the fulfilment of his mission. The death of another Soldier of Peace leaves us deeply shy, even for more for a year in which the fire unfortunately has already brought us four other Portuguese firefighters. We regret that the elevated number of firefighters that traditionally occur in our country, during the period of the Feras,
I am very grateful, Mr. Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha. Deputies, we will vote the deliberative part of this draft vote. Submitted to the vote, it was approved by unanimity. Deputies, after the votes we just approved, we will keep 1 minute of silence. The Chamber kept, standing, 1 minute of silence. Vice President Fernando Negrão favour to continue to direct the work, giving follow to the votes.
Deputies, we will vote on the draft resolution no. 602/XIV/1.a (PAR) — Deputies of the President of the Republic to Spain. Submitted to the vote, it was approved by unanimously. Let us vote, in general, the draft law no. 486/XIV/1.a (PCP) — Complete accounting of the service time of the careers and special bodies of the Public Administration. Submitted to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS and the CDS-PP, votes for the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the PEV, the CH and the unregistered Deputies Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar More and the PSD and the IL abstinences. Let us vote on the draft resolution no. 484/XIV of the CD/
Mr. President, I just wanted to indicate that the Chega will submit a vote statement on these two last projects that have been voted.
We will vote, in general, the draft resolution no. 550/XIV/1.a (PAN) — Recommend to the Government to present and submit to the approval of the Assembly of the Republic the National Strategy for the Combat of Corruption 2020-2024. Submitted to the vote, was approved, with votes in favour of the PS, the PSD, the BE, the PS, the PAN, the CH, the BE, the CL, the CL, the CL, the CL, the CL, the CL, the CL, the CL, the CL, the CL, the CL, the CL, the CL, the CL, the CL, the CL, the CL, the CL, the CL, the CL, the CL, the CL, the CL, the CL, the CL, the CL, the CL, the CL, the CL, the CL, the CL, the
Mr. President, I would like to inform you that we will submit a vote statement on this vote.
We will go to the draft law no. 483/XIV/1.a (BE) — Extends the extraordinary regime of protection of the tenants (the 4th amendment to Law no. 1-A/2020, of 19 March).
Mr. President, requests for withdrawal have been submitted to the Commission regarding this draft law and the following draft law, of the PCP.
Deputy, just had this indication of the P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.
Mr. President, I would like to inform you that we will submit a vote statement on this vote.
We will vote on the draft resolution no. 77/XIV/1.a (CDS-PP) — Constitution of an eventual commission for the follow-up of the initiatives on family and birth. Submitted to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the PEV and the unregistered Deputies Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes for the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL.
Mr President, I ask for the word.
Mr. Babiana Cunha, do you ask the word for what effect?
Mr. President, it is to announce that we will make a vote declaration about this last vote.
We will vote on the draft resolution No. 59/XIV/1.a (PSD) — For an integrated policy for childhood and family. Submitted to the vote, was rejected, with votes against the PS, BE, PCP and PEV, votes for the PSD, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and the unregistered Deputy Cristina Rodrigues and the abstention of the unregistered Deputy Joacine Katar Moreira.
Mr President, I ask for the word.
Mr. Babiana Cunha, do you ask the word for what effect?
It is to announce that, also on this vote, we will make a vote declaration.
We will vote on the draft resolution no. 255/XIV/1.a (PCP) — Recommend to the Government the adoption of transversal and integrated measures of support and incentive to birth. Submitted to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL and votes in favour of the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the PEV and the unregistered Deputies Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.
Mr President, I ask for the word.
Do you ask the word for what effect?
Mr. President, it is to announce that, concerning the previously voted draft resolution, we will make a vote declaration.
You are registered, Mr. Deputy.Let us now vote for a request, submitted by the PAN.
Mr President, I ask for the word.
Do you ask the word for what effect?
Mr. President, it is to say that I also submitted a request, concerning the draft law no. 494/XIV/1.a, and I suggest a joint vote.
Mr President, I ask for the word.
Do you ask the word for what effect?
I would like to submit, also, a request, so that the Bill No. 501/XIV/1.a has the same treatment as the previous, i.e., that it will be submitted to the committee, without voting, for 60 days.
In this context, the European Parliament and the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the Council of
Mr President, I ask for the word.
Do you ask the word for what effect?
Mr. President, I apologize for the interruption, but it was only to announce that we will submit a vote statement on the vote we just made.
We will vote, in general, in the specialty and in global final vote, the Law No. 51/XIV/1.a (GOV) — Authorizes the Government to legislate on matters relating to the displacement of workers within the framework of a service provision, by transposing Directive (EU) No. 2018/957. Submitted to the vote, was approved, with votes in favour of the PS, the PSD, the PAN, the CH, the IL and the Unregistered Deputy Cristina Rodrigues, votes against the PCP and the PEV and abstentions from the BE, the CDS-PP and the Unregistered Deputy Joacine Katarira More.
Mr President, I ask for the word.
Do you ask the word for what effect?
Mr. President, it is to announce that the PSD Parliamentary Group will deliver a vote statement on this last vote.
You are registered, Mr.
Mr President, I ask for the word.
Do you ask the word for what effect?
Mr. President, it is to indicate that the Parliamentary Group of the Left Bloc will also submit a vote declaration on the last vote.
We vote, in the generality of the P.S. and the Generality of the P.S. and the Generality of the P.S. and the Generality of the P.S. and the Generality of the P.S. and the Generality of the P.S. and the Generality of the P.S. and the Generality of the P.S. and the Generality of the P.S. and the Generality of the P.S. and the Generality of the P.S. and the Generality of the P.S. and the Generality of the P.S. and the Generality of the P.S. and the Generality of the P.S. and the Generality of the P.S. and the Generality of the P.S. and the Generality of the P.S. and the Generality of the P.S. and the Generality of
Mr President, I ask for the word.
You have the word, Mr.
Mr. President, we will make a vote statement on this vote.
We will now proceed to the vote of the draft resolution no. 445/XIV/1.a (PAN) — Recommend to the Government that defines a strategic plan to ensure the digital transition in schools. Submitted to the vote, was rejected, with votes against the PS, votes in favour of the PSD, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and the Deputy not registered Christina Rodriguese and the Deputy not registered Christina Rodriguese and the Deputy not registered Christina Rodriguese and the Deputy not registered Christina Rodriguese and the Deputy not registered Christina Rodriguese and the Deputy not registered Christina Rodriguese.
Mr President, I ask for the word.
Please please Mr. Deputy.
Mr. President, I wanted to inform you that we will submit a vote statement on this vote.
We pass to the vote of the draft resolution no. 265/XIV/1.a (BE) — Recommend the creation of remunerative supplements for the forest guard career. Submitted to the vote, it was approved, with votes in favour of the PSD, the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the PEV, the CH and the unregistered MPs Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions of the PS and the IL.
Mr President, I ask for the word.
Do you ask the word for what effect?
Mr. President, I believe that, at the time, I did not give the right indication of voting of the Left Bloc and Mr. President also did not expose it orally, although we both emphasized on this matter. I just wanted to be lavrado in ata that, in the Resolution No. 550/XIV/1.a (PAN) — I recommend the Government to present and submit to the approval of the Assembly of the Republic the National Anti-Corruption Strategy 2020-2024, the Left Bloc voted in favour.
But the indication we have is that the Bloc de Esquerda voted for, I remember this vote. Closed the votes, has the word to Mrs. Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha to make some announcements.
Mr. President, I just wanted to announce that they entered the Table the Law No. 56/XIV/2.a (GOV) and the Law No. 508/XIV/2.a (PCP).
Mr President, I ask for the word.
Mr. Mariana Mortágua, please.
Mr. President, I apologize, I just wanted to inform you that I couldn’t register, but I was present in the votes.
We have always the announcement of the names of the colleagues who have been present by technological means to follow the work.
Deputy of the PS Paulo Porto, elected by the circles outside Europe.
In the first paragraph, a thematic debate is scheduled, requested by the Government, on the strategic vision for the Economic Recovery Plan of Portugal 2020-2030, pursuant to Article 73 of the Regulation. In the second and last paragraph, the preparatory debate of the European Council, with the participation of the Prime Minister, pursuant to Article 4(1)(a) of the Law of Following, Appreciation and Pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic, within the framework of the construction process of the European Union.
Before we begin our work, I ask Ms. Deputy Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha to read the file.
It was also admitted to the Bill No. 512/XIV/2.a (BE), No. 514/XIV/2.a (PCP), No. 515/XIV/2.a (PCP), No. 516/XIV/2.a (PSD), No. 517/XIV/2.a (PCP), No. 518/XIV/2.a (PCP) and No. 519/XIV/2.a (N). It was also admitted to the Bill No. 512/XIV/2.a (BE), No. 514/XIV/2.a (PCP), No. 514/XIV/2.a (PCP), No. 515/XIV/2.a (PCP), No. 516/XIV/2.a (PCP), No. 517/XIV/2.a (PCP), No.
I am very grateful, Mr. Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha. Prime Minister and all the Ministers and Secretaries of State present. Deputies, we will give start to the agenda, with the thematic debate, requested by the Government, pursuant to Article 73 of the Regulation, on strategic vision for the economic recovery plan of Portugal 2020-2030. Prime Minister. Prime Minister.
There are several different types of foods that can be used for the purposes of the purposes of the purposes of the purposes of the purposes of the purposes of the purposes of the purposes of the purposes of the purposes of the purposes of the purposes of the purposes of the purposes of the purposes of the purposes of the purposes of the purposes of the purposes of the purposes of the purposes of the purposes of the purposes of the purposes of the purposes of the purposes.
First Minister, he has already largely exceeded his time, so that time will be discontinued, later, in the time of the Government.
This is, Mr. President, the greatest crisis that any of us had to face, in a framework full of uncertainty. It is true that the duration of the pandemic is still uncertain, but on the other hand, it is certain the determination of all the Portuguese to persevere in their fight and on the path of recovery. This is the moment when, with all our energy, we have to focus on facing and overcome the triple challenge we have ahead: control the pandemic, recover Portugal, take care of the future.
We will enter the second phase of the debate. deputy Rui Rio, of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
For example, if you do not have the right to do so, you will not have the right to do so; if you do not have the right to do so, you will have the right to do so; if you do not have the right to do so, you will have the right to do so; if you do not have the right to do so, you will have the right to do so; if you do not have the right to do so, you will have the right to do so; if you do not have the right to do so, you will have the right to do so; if you do not have the right to do so, you will have the right to do so.
It has the word, for an intervention, Mr. Deputy Ana Catarina Mendonça Mendes, of the Parliamentary Group of the PS.
Deputies: My first word is to greet the Government, not only because I have heard all the parties about the great challenges for the country in the next 10 years, after this pandemic crisis, and still without knowing the last six months of its economic and social effects, but also to greet the existence of this debate. Deputies Rui Rio could recover the arguments that were given in 2015, precisely by his bank, about the “papa” of the rise of the minimum wage, the rise of the income of the people or the return of social rights to the people,... Aplauses of the PS.... as if it were to prevent the growth of the economy.
It is true!
Deputies think that the big problem will be that we will be able to raise the national minimum wage again here in 2021. Aplauses of the PS. This is just the contribution that I was not waiting to come from the PSD, but ultimately, a strong social state is able to give the necessary responses in the health, in the public school, in the social protection of all citizens. First-Minister, in the name of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party, what I want to emphasize, within the various things that this plan involves in the National network of the children, is truly the strengthening that the social state that we have developed from the PS and our programs. It is that if there is something that the government has not a social plan, but the future has not a life, it is not a life, it is a life, it is a life, it is a life, it
I think it’s a good thing to do, but it’s a good thing to do, it’s a good thing to do.
For example, if you are a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or
Exactly!
The same in relation to teachers and technicians, to whom it is necessary to give working conditions that guarantee the safety, tranquility and confidence necessary to the functions they perform. The strengthening of the funds and measures of school social action are another indispensable aspect in guaranteeing equality in access to education. In matters of social protection it is essential to guarantee now the support to whom lost employment, the salary or fell in a situation of poverty or social exclusion. It is necessary to advance in the creation of a public network of homes of elderly and in the hiring of workers for social security for the strengthening of the social equipment, in order to guarantee adequate conditions of response, whether in homes, growers and kindergartens, in institutions dedicated to people with disabilities or others. It is necessary to guarantee the support of those who have lost
This is the time of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Bloc. has the word to Mr. Deputy Catarina Martins.
For example, if you are a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or a member of the company or
To intervene in the debate, you have the word to Mr. Deputy Cecilia Meireles, of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group.
For example, if you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company.
To intervene in the debate, have the word to Mr. Deputy Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN.
For example, if you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company.
You have to conclude.
I conclude already, Mr. President. Prime Minister, it is how we will respond to these major challenges and what bridges is the Government available to build, especially within the scope of the concerns of the PAN.
President José Luís Ferreira of the Greens.
We are all fearful of being in front of a loss of opportunity and we are all fearful of being in front of a loss of opportunity and we are all fearful of being in front of a loss of opportunity and we are all fearful of being in front of a loss of opportunity and we are all fearful of being in front of a loss of opportunity and we are all fearful of being in front of a loss of opportunity and we are all fearful of being in front of a loss of opportunity and we are all fearful of being in front of a loss of opportunity and we are all fearful of being in front of a loss of opportunity and we are all fearful of being in front of a loss of opportunity and we are all fearful of being in front of a loss of opportunity and we are all fearful of being in front of a loss of opportunity and we are all fearful of being in front of a loss of opportunity and we are all
Deputy André Ventura, from Chega.
First-Minister presented us a program of recovery and resilience in which he spoke of territorial cohesion and it is impressive that, in this territorial cohesion, it has not mentioned Algarve once. The region of the country where unemployment increased less than half of that value, 200%, along with the region of Lisbon, has not a single mention of the Prime Minister, in terms of this real national tragedy that is unemployment. First-Minister has to answer to another thing: why is it that, in Portugal, there are two countries, the public country and the private country, in which one receives 1.8 billion and the cohesions of and families will receive less than half of that value?!There are two countries to please the left, leaving the taxpayers and that these countries are still living outside of the public that they are not always going to do their investment and they can
It is because it has exceeded the time it has.
I will finish, Mr. President, saying the following: Public debt reached today 133% of GDP, a historic level never before seen.
The Deputy.
I’m going to finish, Mr. Prime Minister, whether or not we’re going to have European taxes to finance these measures.
Member Maló de Abreu of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
The number of infected by the COVID-19, that the government is not the first to say that it is the first to say that it is the first to say that it is the first to say that it is the first to say that it is the first to say that it is the first to say that it is the first to say that it is the first to say that it is the first to say that it is the first to say that it is the first to say that it is the first to say that it is the first to say that it is the first to say that it is the first to say that it is the first to say that it is the first to say that it is the first to say that it is the first to say that it is the first to say that it is the first to say that it is the first to say that it is the first to say that it is the first to say that it is the first to say that it
Deputy Luis Testa, of the Parliamentary Group of the PS.
First-Minister but, before, I would like to make a comment on the approach that the country has a full-fledged action. Deputy would like it to be verified in the life of all the Portuguese. Portugal is a country that has risen every day to fight, precisely, the state to which it has reached. First-Minister, Saudi Arabia is a real country that has been unbalanced for decades. This imbalance has the precise pillar of the policy, one more profound than the other. The government that V. Ex.a has created a global action. The government that V. Ex.a has created a global action. The government that V. Ex.a has created a global action. The government that V. Ex.a has created a global action. The government that V.a.a.a.a.a.a.a.a.a.a.
You have the word to Mr. Deputy Mariana Silva, from Los Verdes, for an intervention.
Prime Minister: In the suggestions submitted by Prof. Costa Silva for the economic recovery plan of Portugal 2020-2030, translated into proposals of financing in the recovery and resilience plan, submitted by the Government, promised reinforcement of the National Health Service and aqua betting on the rail. The Greens consider that these are areas that need even a lot of resilience. This reinforcement was, for a long time, necessary that the resilience of the rail development of the Lissabon was necessary and have been countless times that the resilience of the port and the crucifixed the crucifixed the crucifixed the crucifixed the crucifixed the crucifixed the crucifixed the crucifixed the crucifixed the crucifixed the crucifixed the crucifixed the crucifix
You have now the word to Mr. Deputy Lara Martinho, from the Parliamentary Group of the PS, for an intervention.
First-Minister: We are facing a colossal challenge, which will only be overcome if we succeed in achieving three critical factors of success. The first factor is to know where we want to go. First-Minister opened the future to society with the elaboration of the Strategic Vision by Professor Costa Silva, with hundreds of contributions, and, in complementarity, in the Azores, the Regional Government only opened the future to society and created the ambitious Agenda for its Social and Economic Resurgence, with 250 measures to respond to the regional specificities. We will therefore have a global and integrated vision of what should be the bets for the next years. It is certain that it is impossible to anticipate the full future by Prof. Costa Silva, with hundreds of contributions, and in complementarity, in the Azores, the Regional Government only opened the future
Member of the Farm.
The government has done the work that is required to generate consensus to the institutions and to the thousands of public and private promoters until now: it has succeeded in obtaining the greatest package of European funds in the community funds in the 2020 community funds in the 2020 community funds in the 2020 community funds in the 2020 community funds in the 2020 community funds in the 2020 community funds in the 2020 community funds in the 2020 community funds in the 2020 community funds in the 2020 community funds in the 2020 community funds in the 2020 community funds in the 2020 community funds in the 2020 community funds in the 2020 community funds in the 2020 community funds in the 2020 community funds in the 2020 community funds in the 2020 community funds in the 2020 community funds in the 2020 community funds in the 2020 community funds in the 2020 community funds in the 2020
Prime Minister Antonio Costa.
Mr. President, I think it is to answer the questions.
First Minister, this debate does not have a phase of questions and a phase of interventions. According to the grille, this type of debate has three phases, the opening, the debate and the closing. At this moment, we are in the phase of debate. First Minister has signed up for this phase, so it has then the word for an intervention.
As a result, it is important to note that, in the context of the implementation of the Agreement of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament
Member of the Liberal Initiative, João Cotrim de Figueiredo.
Deputies: I said here what I thought of this plan — a catalog of dozens of measures in which everything is crucial, fundamental, essential, fulcral, in which everything, i.e. nothing, is priority. I will pass over the propaganda that was made, for this purpose, against the liberals, as if the good examples of fighting the pandemic and the beginning of huge economic recovery did not come precisely from the liberal countries. Only that the government, instead of doing what is the plan of the two people the plan of the plan of the plan of the plan of the plan of the plan of the plan of the plan of the plan of the plan of the plan of the plan of the plan of the plan of the plan of the plan of the plan of the plan of the plan of the plan of the plan of the plan of the plan of the plan of the plan of the plan of the plan of
The Deputy.
I will conclude, Mr. President. Facing this evidence, the Government opts to maintain the logic of management of the funds that already exists, i.e. hopes to much more ambitious goals with the same structure. To not miss this opportunity, we need to mobilize and release the energy and creativity of the Portuguese.
You have to conclude.
This is absolutely crucial, fundamental, essential, fulcral.
by Afonso Oliveira.
It’s a good thing to say, but it’s a good thing to say, it’s a good thing to say, it’s a good thing to say, it’s a good thing to say, it’s a good thing to say, it’s a good thing to say, it’s a good thing to say, it’s a good thing to say, it’s a good thing to say, it’s a good thing to say, it’s a good thing to say.
You now have the word to Mr. Deputy Cecilia Meireles, of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group.
Mr. President, I think there will still be an opportunity to make a clarification. Mr. Prime Minister that we did our homework and therefore I requested and obtained, today, this precious document for my party. It was so that after having spent a few days studying the 10 priority axes, I could now study these three large blocks. Mr. Prime Minister will understand, it is not so a study that takes many hours. Now, speaking of concrete things, more exemplary you what I wanted to know. The document says the following: «resilience», «productive potential», «capitalization of companies» — we are all agree. Mr. Prime Minister is the capitalist that companies say to them: «If they don’t pay these taxes, I’m going to pay the taxes, I’m going to pay the taxes, I’m going to pay the ta
Deputy Joao Paulo Correia, of the PS.
In the meantime, it is a great opportunity for us to find out what is going on and what is going on and what is going on.
The Deputy.
Deputy Afonso Oliveira said recently that this plan does not bring an idea, does not bring new proposals to the country. The truth is that the PSD did not bring a single proposal, a single idea for this debate. The great concern of the PSD is the rise of the minimum wage, as if it was the source of all the evils of the future that comes there. Deputy Afonso Oliveira, made us remember what he said here, at the end of 2015 and in 2016, repeatedly, the Deputy Passos Coelho, when he came to say that the rise of the minimum wage would destroy the creation of employment and make the unemployment shoot. This is an absence of ideas, a vacuum of proposals. The country was more waiting for the PSD in this type of debate of Aplausos. The Parliament was left the government's economic and economic plan
It is the most important part of the world, and it is the most important part of the world, and the most important part of the world.
Mr. President, it will be very fast. Deputy João Paulo Correia, as usual, did not hear even my intervention, nor a large part of the debate. PSD applause. If I had heard, I had realized that what is concerned in this debate, today, in Parliament, is the strategic plan of the Government. What was realized is that there is a strategic vision presented by Mr. Prof. Costa Silva and there is not yet a strategic plan of the Government for what has to be done next. There is not, it is not realized yet! We are discussing and we will see. Therefore, what is a government intention in some areas, and that is in discussion — yet it is — but at no time I said that Mr. Costa Silva has not presented a proposal that is worth discussing and advocate.
Deputy has to conclude.
Mr. President, if I allow, I will leave a last note and finish it quickly.
Deputy has to conclude.
I think it’s a good thing to do, but I think it’s a good thing to do, and I think it’s a good thing to do, and I think it’s a good thing to do.
It has the word, for an intervention, the Minister of State and the Presidency, Mariana Vieira da Silva.
Deputies, they all refunded to the youth in the currents of the fund defined in the currents of the fund defined in the current currents of the fund defined in the current currents of the fund defined in the current currents of the fund defined in the current currents of the fund defined in the current currents of the fund defined in the current currents of the fund defined in the current currents of the fund defined in the current currents of the fund defined in the current currents of the fund defined in the current currents of the fund defined in the current currents of the fund defined in the current currents of the fund defined in the current currents of the fund defined in the current currents of the fund defined in the current currents of the fund defined
This is the most important part of the world, and the most important part of the world is the world.
We have more than half of the unemployed without access to end protection in unemployment, a problem that has already come back, precisely from the changes made by the Socialist Party, in 2010, and from the changes made by the right party, in 2012; we have an irrisory coverage that the government is not the only one, but the government is not the only one, the government is not the only one, the government is not the only one, the government is not the only one, the government is not the only one, the government is not the only one, the government is not the only one, the government is not the only one, the government is not the only one, the government is not the only one, the government is not the only one, the government is not the only one, the government is the only one, the government is the only one, the government is the only one, the government is the only one,
Deputy deputy Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro, of the Parliamentary Group of the PS.
It is the debate of a country that has to prioritize collectively the challenges that we have to face, and it is certain that, for what we hear this afternoon, there are still parties of the opposition that have this long pillar to the front to give the contributions necessary for these solutions, we have the last pillar to the last pillar to the last pillar to the last pillar to the last pillar to the last pillar to the last pillar to the last pillar to the last pillar to the last pillar to the last pillar to the last pillar to the last pillar to the last pillar to the last pillar to the last pillar.
You have the word, to answer, to Mr. Minister of State and the Presidency, Mariana Vieira da Silva.
Deputies the two questions. I think that one of the fundamental things when we look at a response to the crisis as the one we have to give is, of course, rejecting false dicotomies between urgency and structural response. They do not exist, as this crisis well showed, because what the crisis reveals is that we need to work in areas where we were already working. What we seek to ensure is that, within the framework of the State Budget, the recovery plan and the multi-year financial framework, we get a consistent response to all these problems they identified and for many others that we could identify with more time, without finding that, first, we have to solve what is urgent and then, then we treat what is structural, because if we do it, we will not respond to the structural.
Totally agree!
Therefore, the issue of employment also crosses this dimension, because what is shown is that we have to continue the work we were doing, and not just of creating jobs, beting immediately on projects that can give quick evidence of the ability to create jobs and also working on the quality of employment, in particular fighting the precariety. What remains from this debate, I believe, is a question: if we are not able to understand ourselves in a response to the crisis that increases the investment, that protects the SNS, that strengthens the social policies, when can we be able to understand ourselves?
We have come, so, to the end of the debate period. Let’s pass to the closing phase. Deputy José Luís Ferreira, of the Parliamentary Group of the Ecologist Party “The Greens”.
For the purposes of this Agreement of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament and of the
It is the turn of the PAN. has the word to Mr. Inês Deputy of Sousa Real for an intervention.
For example, if you do not have the right to do so, you will have the right to do so; if you do not have the right to do so, you will have the right to do so; if you do not have the right to do so, you will have the right to do so; if you do not have the right to do so, you will have the right to do so; if you do not have the right to do so, you will have the right to do so; if you do not have the right to do so, you will have the right to do so; if you do not have the right to do so, you will have the right to do so; if you do not have the right to do so, you will have the right to do so.
Member Telmo Correia, on behalf of the CDS-PP, for an intervention.
In the first place, the first place, the second place, the second place, the second place, the second place, the second place, the second place, the second place, the second place, the second place, the second place, the second place, the second place, the second place, the second place, the second place, the second place, the second place, the second place, the second place, the second place, the second place, the second place, the second place, the second place, the second place, the second place, the second place, the second place, the second place, the second place, the second place, the second place, the second place, the second place, the second place, the second place, the second place, the second place, the second place, the second place, the second place, the second place, the second place, the second place, the second place, the second place, the second place, the
I ask you to conclude.
I will finish, Mr. President. As I was saying, this model is still more State and more public consumption. The model we should have was more private initiative, more companies and an exporting economy. If this is the model, we will hardly adhere, although we can contribute.
Deputy Joao Oliveira, of the Parliamentary Group of the PCP, for an intervention.
In the meantime, there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt.
The Deputy.
The public investment, the investment in public services, the hiring of workers, the bet and the strengthening of the response in social protection are other of these essential dimensions and, by them, here we will be fighting, with our initiative, with our proposals, throughout the scope in which the Assembly of the Republic has competences to intervene in these matters.
It is the first time that we have to do this, and we have to do this.
There is a question that is about the first time, and the first time, and the second time, and the second time, and the second time, and the second time, and the second time, and the second time, and the second time, and the second time, and the second time, and the second time, and the second time, and the second time, and the second time, and the second time, and the second time, and the second time, and the second time, and the second time, and the second time, and the second time, and the second time, and the second time, and the second time, and the second time, and the second time, and the second time, and the second time, and the second time, and the second time, and the second time, and the second time, and the second time, and the second time.
The Deputy.
There is another aspect in which the plan of Costa Silva fails and on which the Government has not said anything, it is called the financial system. We have the elephant in the room, called the New Bank, which takes, in public money, half of what we will discuss in the coming years and on this matter we know that the Government has always given its annuity to the payments to the New Bank and we know that the plan of Costa Silva has no line on that matter.
Deputy Adão Silva, of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
Deputies: The times of pandemic, with its overwhelms, fears and deceations, are also times of a new start. Europe betting strong in creating robust conditions for this start and Portugal cannot waste neither the available financial resources, nor, much less, the time, which is the first of the resources. We have great challenges in front of us, because great is the torment that today afflicts us. The use of 58,000 million euros in the next nine years, i.e., 6,500 million euros a year and more than 16 million euros a day, are exceptional resources for the modernization of Portugal, an unexpected opportunity that we cannot waste. The Social Democratic Party brings here, two questions: where we will use this money? How will we use this money? The main money has to be: the main funds of the PSD that are destined to promote the
If the country, by ideological opportunisms, would be unacceptable to invest those exceptional resources in the satisfaction of political clients and personal friendships and still in the creation of a Mastodontic State, we would be going back, contrary to the winds of the History. The government can’t instrumentalize that a major explanation of the history. the government can’t instrumentalize that a major explanation of the history. the government can’t instrumentalize that a major explanation of the history. the government can’t instrumentalize that a major explanation of the history. the government can’t instrumentalize that a major explanation of the history. the government can’t instrumentalize that a major explanation of the history. the government can’t instrumentalize that a major explanation of the history. the government can’t instrumentalize that a major explanation of the
The common citizen is witnessing this social collapse and fears the worst. applause from the PSD. Well, if the imperative should be “not a lost penny”, we have to add: neither a pingo of desperate hope!
I ask you to conclude.
Therefore, in this beginning that the pandemic imposes on us and in this opportunity that the Community funds provide us, we must be intolerant to corrupt practices.
The Deputy!
As the President of my party, Deputy Rui Rio said: “It is necessary that the Government, it is necessary that we all, the Parliament and the courts, be able to find solutions for monitoring and monitoring the use of these community funds, so that we don’t again have the chest pain, the soul pain, that we had in the past, of the misuse of the community funds.
Deputy Carlos Pereira.
It is so that we do not want to do so, but we do not want to do so, and we do not want to do so, and we do not want to do so, and we do not want to do so, and we do not want to do so, and we do not want to do so, and we do not want to do so, and we do not want to do so, and we do not want to do so, and we do not want to do so, and we do not want to do so.
To end this thematic debate, requested by the Government, on the strategic vision for the economic recovery plan of Portugal 2020-2030, has the word Mr. Minister of Planning, Nelson de Souza.
For example, if you do not have the right to do so, you will have the right to do so; if you do not have the right to do so, you will have the right to do so; if you do not have the right to do so, you will have the right to do so; if you do not have the right to do so, you will have the right to do so; if you do not have the right to do so, you will have the right to do so; if you do not have the right to do so, you will have the right to do so.
I ask you to conclude.
I would like to leave a last word concerning an essential issue that has been put by various analysts, in various opinions, even of the parties here represented in this Assembly, which has to do with the need to pay particular attention to the management and control systems, in order to avoid situations either of fraudulent use or of deviation of use of this high amount of funds.
You have to conclude, Mr.
What we want to say is that we are sensitive to studying new and strengthened means, including transforming and modifying the current “black box”, which, in the eyes of users and the generality of citizens, is the current system of fund management and control, creating a system of “glass walls” which, while ensuring the proper use of the funds, promotes the efficiency and speed we all desire.
We pass to the second point, which is the preparatory debate of the European Council, in accordance with paragraph 1(a) of Article 4 of the Law on Monitoring, Assessment and Pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic within the framework of the European Union Construction Process.
As is known, it is important to note that it is important to note that it is important to note that it is important to note that it is important to note that it is important to note that it is important to note that it is important to note that it is important to note that it is important to note that it is important to note that it is important to note that it is important to note that it is important to note that it is important to note that it is important to note that it is important to note that it is important to note that it is important to note that it is important to note that it is important to note that it is important to note that it is important to note that it is important to note that it is important to note that it is important to note that it is important to note that it is important to note that it is important to note that it is important to note that it is important to note that it is important to note that it is
Deputy Capoulas Santos.
For example, if you are a member of the European Union or a member of the European Union or a member of the European Union or a member of the European Union or a member of the European Union or a member of the European Union or a member of the European Union or a member of the European Union or a member of the European Union or a member of the European Union or a member of the European Union or a member of the European Union or a member of the European Union or a member of the European Union or a member of the European Union or a member of the European Union or a member of the European Union or a member of the European Union or a member of the European Union or a member of the European Union or a member of the European Union or a member of the European Union or a member of the European Union or a member of the European Union or a member of the European Union or a member of the European Union or a member of the European Union or a member of
This is the first time I’ve been able to do it, and I’ve been able to do it, and I’ve been able to do it.
Deputies: The reason for the digital delay of the European Council has digitated the agenda for this week has digitated the agenda has transit that we live in a huge uncertainty: uncertainty as to the evolution of the epidemic, uncertainty as to the depth of the economic crisis, uncertainty as to the future. We don’t know how the Council will be in Europe after this global crisis, if it will be able to make its values prevail, fight nationalism and populisms will be real, defending the rule of law and democracy, defending the rule of law and democracy, defending the rule of law and democracy, defending the rule of law and democracy, defending the rule of law and democracy, defending the rule of law and democra
I ask you to conclude, Mr.
This is the warning that comes from the United Nations: the digital world is working with many benefits, but not equally for all. Prime Minister, of the digital capabilities in the school and in the training programs, to avoid that there are new inequalities to sum to the old.
You have the word to Mr. Deputy Isabel Meireles, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, for an intervention.
For example, if you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company.
It has the word, by the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, Mr. Deputy Fabíola Cardoso, for an intervention.
Representatives: Representatives: Representatives: Representatives: Representatives: Representatives: Representatives: Representatives: Representatives: Representatives: Representatives: Representatives: Representatives: Representatives: Representatives: Representatives: Representatives: Representatives: Representatives: Representatives: Representatives: Representatives: Representatives: Representatives: Representatives: Representatives: Representatives: Representatives: Representatives: Representatives: Representatives: Representatives: Representatives.
At the time of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Bloc, the word has Mr. Deputy Beatriz Gomes Dias.
Parliamentarians: The temporary emergency mechanisms that are detected in the defence camps the paradigm of human rights that are modified in the defence camps that are modified in the defence camps that are modified in the defence camps that are modified in the defence camps that are modified in the defence camps that are modified in the defence camps that are modified in the defence camps that are modified in the defence camps that are modified in the defence camps that are modified in the defence camps that are modified in the defence camps that are modified in the defence camps that are modified in the defence camps that are modified in the defence camps that are modified in the defence camps that are modified in the defence camps that are modified in the defen
You have to conclude.
Congratulations from the Prime Minister.
This is the time of the Parliamentary Group of the PCP Deputy Bruno Dias.
Members of the Government: Again, it is the same receipt of concentration of political power and domination on the supranational level, including the expansion itself to new sectors and areas of action — such as health — always in the name of angelic harmonization or articulation, to hide the real strategies of profit accumulation, of degradation of public services, of disregulation of the various plans. It is the continuity, with other roupages and retorious plans, of the newly announced government of the Union, including the expansion itself to new sectors and areas of action — such as health — always in the name of angelic harmonization or articulation, to hide the real strategies of profit accumulation, of degradation of public services, of disregulation of the various plans. It is the continuity, with other roupages and retorious plans,
Exactly!
First-Ministry, only who wants to be deceived will believe that, in the industrial policies, the government will be deceived. it is all a large European family, whether the EFACEC (Legal Electric Machinery Manufacturing Company, SARL) or the ThyssenKrupp, the TAP or Lufthansa, the Arsenal of Alfeite or the HDW (Howaldtswerke-Deutsche Werft) will be deceived! at the time that the government will be deceived, it will be deceived, it will be deceived, it will be deceived, it will be deceived, it will be deceived, it will be deceived, it will be deceived, it will be deceived, it will be deceived, it will be deceived, it will be deceived, it will be dece
This is the time of the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP. Deputy João Pinho de Almeida, for an intervention.
Deputies: I wanted to start by emphasizing the importance and satisfaction, by the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP, that we are having this debate.
Well remembered!
By taking all the examples of the previous proposed debate, it seems clear to me that the end of the five-year table discussions, now transformed into their thematic debates, does not bring any substantial advantage to the political debate, and the end of the European debates also would not take. Regardless of the different perspectives we have — and are substantially different — it is indiscutible that this debate and this scrutiny are fundamental to what all the others have always said that we want, that is, that a culture of participation in the European project, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is.
very well!
Therefore, in return and reopening the market, there is a problem of competitiveness for those who received lower supports compared to competitors who received another type of support. The European Commission provided a mechanism to balance this situation, the European Parliament supports this mechanism, but there is no majority in the Council to approve it. Prime Minister will defend the interest of the Portuguese companies, of their solvency, of the resolution of one of the biggest problems that has the national economy, which is the lack of capital, to allow the Portuguese companies to have a stock exchange to be able to have that competitiveness.
The Deputy.
Therefore, Portugal, which is an exemplary country in these matters, must struggle so that countries that are at the Union borders do not continue to do and atropel human rights and political participation, as has happened in Belarus.
This is the time of the Parliamentary Group of the PAN. has the word to Mr. Inês de Sousa Real.
First-Minister's opinion is that the Prime Minister's opinion is that the Prime Minister's opinion is that the Prime Minister's opinion is that the Prime Minister's opinion is that the Prime Minister's opinion is that the Prime Minister's opinion is that the Prime Minister's opinion is that the Prime Minister's opinion is that the Prime Minister's opinion is that the Prime Minister's opinion is that the Prime Minister's opinion is that the Prime Minister's opinion is that the Prime Minister's opinion is that the Prime Minister's opinion is that the Prime Minister's opinion is that the Prime Minister's opinion is that the Prime Minister's opinion is that the Prime Minister's opinion is that the Prime Minister's opinion is that the Prime Minister's opinion is that the Prime Minister's opinion is that the Prime Minister's opinion is that the Prime Minister's opinion is that the Prime Minister's
He is a member of the Parliamentary Group of the Ecologist Party “The Greens”.
The first-Minister also intends to stay in this day the European Council should not cease to keep that change the government until it changes its attention to the response to the crisis that Europe is treating and treating, after the pandemic. What we need is concrete answers and not false solidarities and European principles that, however, strictly nothing happens in the day-to-day of the citizens itself. Therefore, in our view, the European Union will not be able to keep that change the Charter of the Government that does not change the conflict with the government that does not change the conflict with the government that does not change the conflict with the government that does not change the conflict with the government that does not change the conflict with the government.
Deputy André Ventura, from Chega.
Members of the Government, it became clear today that the only strategy that the Government has to fight the burracy entry is to be out of hand extended to Europe. There is no other. It is waiting for the money that comes, to see when it comes and in despair, because, if it does not arrive, such Ronaldo of Finance has not left any miracle that allows the solidity of our new economy. I wanted to ask what will be the position of the Portuguese Government on the new corridors of the Union that states that they are always the greatest that the Union that they are the greatest that they are the greatest that they are the greatest that they are the greatest that they are the greatest that they are the greatest that they are the greatest that they are the greatest that they are the greatest that they are the greatest that they are the greatest that they are the greatest that they are
The Deputy.
I’m going to finish, Mr. President. I’ve already told us today that there will be more European taxes. I’d like you to tell us what Portugal will say to more contributions to go searching for people at the outside border of the European Union when we have people without home, here, in the city of Lisbon. It’s what I wanted you to answer me.
Member of the Liberal Initiative, João Cotrim de Figueiredo.
First-Ministry, since we have a huge point of recovery in today, we have a little debate that the level of the government needs to see that the level of the government has a little debate that in the same day, it is a luxury, especially after the PSD and the PS have decided to end the five-year debates. As for the European Council, although it has been delayed for the next week, but I suppose that with the same agenda, the funds are convinced to remind the following. The European Union is a space of national power, the power of the government is not the form of the government, the government is not the form of the government, the government is not the form of the government, the government is not the form of the government, the government is not the form of the government, the government is not the form of the government, the government is not the form of the government, the government is
The Deputy.
I will finish, Mr. President, saying the following: yet no one knows very well how and who will evaluate, select and follow the projects that will be supported. yet no one has realized how it can be guaranteed that this time there will be social return and economic return of investments. yet no one has convinced us that, in the end, we don’t end, again, just to enlarge the mountain of public debt and regret a lost opportunity.
Prime Minister Antonio Costa.
It is the most important thing that we have to do with it, and it is the most important thing that we have to do with it, and it is the most important thing that we have to do with it, and it is the most important thing that we have to do with it, and it is the most important thing that we have to do with it, and it is the most important thing that we have to do with it, and it is the most important thing that we have to do with it.
There are several different sets of sets of sets of sets of sets of sets of sets of sets of sets of sets of sets of sets of sets of sets of sets of sets of sets of sets of sets of sets of sets of sets of sets of sets of sets of sets of sets of sets of sets of sets of sets of sets.
I am starting with giving the word to Mr. Secretary Deputy Maria da Luzinha for the reading of the file.
Mr. President, very good afternoon to you all and all. Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President,
It is the only way to get rid of it, and it is the only way to get rid of it, and it is the only way to get rid of it.
A rested night!
I am very pleased that I will be able to do what I want to do, and I will be able to do what I want to do, and I will be able to do what I want to do, and I will be able to do what I want to do, and I will be able to do what I want to do, and I will be able to do what I want to do, and I will be able to do what I want to do, and I will be able to do what I want to do, and I will be able to do what I want to do, and I will be able to do what I want to do.
In the words of the Holy Prophet (peace and blessings of Allah be upon him), the Holy Prophet (peace and blessings of Allah be upon him), the Holy Prophet (peace and blessings of Allah be upon him), the Holy Prophet (peace and blessings of Allah be upon him), the Holy Prophet (peace and blessings of Allah be upon him), the Holy Prophet (peace and blessings of Allah be upon him), the Holy Prophet (peace and blessings of Allah be upon him), the Holy Prophet (peace and blessings of Allah be upon him), the Holy Prophet (peace and blessings of Allah be upon him), the Holy Prophet (peace and blessings of Allah be upon him), the Holy Prophet (peace and blessings of Allah be upon him), the Holy Prophet (pe
For an intervention, he has the word to Mr. Deputy Sandra Cunha, of the Left Bloc.
The equality between men and women is obviously one of the fundamental principles of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic and, as such, it is the responsibility of the State to promote it in all areas of social life. We have no doubt that we still live in a society that promotes gender stereotypes, that conditions educational and professional choices, thatins wage inequality, thatins segregation in the positions of chief and leadership, that creates, often, the conditions for the unfair participation and political representation of women, but also the unfair distribution in the exercise of parental responsibilities, the responsibilities in the family, in the home, that promotes the feminization of precariety, poverty and social exclusion.
very well!
We consider, therefore, positive all initiatives that gender that seeks to promote and deepen their gender equality solution and fight any discrimination. It is inevitable that the participation of women and men in equality is a key factor for the development of any society, whether in the decision-making bodies and the leadership of the foreign state — in which, however, we are already realizing changes — whether in the organizations of the civil society, the object of the resolution that gender means that the entity is not equal by its principles. We agree that promoting the paritarian representation in the social bodies of the associations of private law is an important way to this goal, but it seems necessary to cover some specificities.
For an intervention, he has the word to Mr. Inês Deputy of Sousa Real, of the PAN.
In this context, we must not be aware of the importance of the European Union and of the European Union and of the European Union and of the European Union and of the European Union and of the European Union and of the European Union and of the European Union and of the European Union and of the European Union and of the European Union and of the European Union and of the European Union.
I call your attention to the time.
As you said, we will obviously follow this proposal, but it seems to us that we have to go further in the fight against gender inequality and that, including, the awards for good practices in these matters should be extended to companies.
He is the deputy Lina Lopes of the PSD.
Deputies: All the objectives of the Constitution of the Parliament and of the Successive Governments, and all the objectives of the Constitution of the Parliament, and all the objectives of the Constitution of the Parliament, and all the objectives of the Constitution of the Parliament, and all the objectives of the Constitution of the Parliament, and all the objectives of the Constitution of the Parliament, and all the objectives of the Constitution of the Parliament, and all the objectives of the Constitution of the Parliament, and all the objectives of the Constitution of the Parliament, and all the objectives of the Constitution of the Parliament, and all the objectives of the Constitution of the Parliament, and all the objectives of the Constitution of the Parliament, and all the objectives of the
You have the word to Mr. Deputy Anna Rita Bessa, from the CDS-PP, for an intervention.
Mr. President, and I think all of these things would be the same, and I think all of these things would be the same, and I think all of these things would be the same, and I think all of these things would be the same, and I think all of these things would be the same, and I think all of these things would be the same, and I think all of these things would be the same, and I think all of these things would be the same.
You have the word to Mr. Deputy Mariana Silva, from the PEV, for an intervention.
Deputies: The participation of all other women in the political and associative life is so necessary that it is present that it is still present that it is present that it is present that it is present that it is present that it is present that it is present that it is present that it is present that it is present that it is present that it is present that it is present that it is present that it is present that it is present that it is present that it is present that it is present that it is present that it is present that it is present that it is present that it is present that it is present that it is present that it is present that it is present that it is present that it is present that it is present that it is present that it is present that it is present that it is present that it is present that it is present that it is present that it is present that it is present that it is present that it is present that it is present
You have the word to Mr. Deputy Alma Rivera, of the PCP, for an intervention.
There is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt
He has the word, for an intervention, Mr. Deputy Alexandra Tavares de Moura.
Deputies: I start by thanking for the contributions to the discussion that was held here and, at the first point, saying that most of the comments and observations we have heard are consistent with our resolution project. For the views, it has been in mind a doubt, which has to do with the fact that it can be understood that what the resolution project of the Socialist Party seeks is to devaluate or end the work of the associations formed specifically by women. It is obvious that it is not that the spirit that is in the resolution project. These associations do an absolute meritory work and have contributed to a positive discrimination, that we want, obviously, to maintain. What we intend is to add, what we intend to be more female participation, because this is also a good political participation. And it is clear that it is not that the spirit that
very well!
This, yes, would have been a very significant step in gender equality. Aplause from PS. Mr. Deputy Ana Rita Bessa, I wanted to tell you the following: gender policies are mechanisms of valuation, here, in Portugal, and in Europe, as we know, and have not to be prizes, but can be prizes. The draft resolution is not a draft law, as you will know better than me, so it opens the door so that the Government finds, even with the associations, the best methodology. The only thing we want, and we can guarantee it also to Deputy Alma Rivera, is the following...
I want to finish, Mr.
As I was saying, the only thing we want, and that we can guarantee, is the following: the survival of the associations and the guarantee of the participation of women are, in fact, our plan.
There are no more registrations, we will close this point. Pause. It seems that there is a last minute registration. Mr. Deputy Lina Lopes, you have the word to exhaust the time you still have.
Mr. President, first of all, I apologize for not registering me timely to use the word. Mr. Deputy Alexandra Tavares de Moura, how important is to have a man and a woman or a woman and a man in the first and second places? What interests me really is the percentage of men and women in the lists. So, and if I wanted to have two women?
Not to!
And two men? Also not? That's so: either we want or don't want equality, and being limiting that equality is also counterproductive for women. Mr. Deputy, what we were discussing was the public appreciation of associations. How is it will value and how is it will do in relation to associations only of women, which we still now discuss...
I have answered!
No, not answered! No, not answered! That, if they are only women’s associations, such as the UMAR — Alternative Women’s Union and Response, will not value anything! When you make a resolution project, you should think of all points.
To end the debate, I give the word to Mr. Elza Pais.
Deputies: We wanted, with this initiative, to strengthen the idea that association exclusive work line, which aims to correct gender imbalances in the leadership of cultural, environmental, youth differences, students and others, thus constituting an incentive to the change of established practices that make it difficult for women to access the leadership. This project aims to and respects the specificities of the associations, in particular the women’s associations, which aims to ensure that this association’s value has already been refined, that this association’s value has been refined, that this association’s value has been refined, that this association’s value has been refined, that this association’s value has been refined, that this association’s value has been refined, that this association’s
I call your attention to the time.
As I was saying, the goal is that this stage can guarantee equal opportunities to men and women, so that no one is behind. Devaluing the progress we propose is not to honor all those we have done so far, especially a set of laws approved in this Assembly.
We have passed to the second point of our work order, which is that of the assessment of the Resolution No. 582/XIV/1.a (PSD) — Program of economic and social response for the Algarve.
Deputies: The day 11th of July new measures may appear a precise date that the Deputies faces insignificant, but it is not. On that day, the Algarve came to celebrate crisis and with hope renewed. Americo Tomás, President of the Republic, had moved to the distant district of Faro to inaugurate the airport. Americo Tomás was drawn with the paperets to the colours and pétalas, it was extended to the project of recovery, it was extended to the project of recovery, it was extended to the project of recovery, it was extended to the project of recovery, it was extended to the project of recovery, it was extended to the project of recovery, it was extended to the project of recovery, it was extended to the project of recovery, it was extended to the
very well!
It is not enough for the Government to recognize the importance of Algarve having a program. It is not enough for the Government to announce that it intends to present a program. We want concrete measures to mitigate the effects of the pandemic crisis on the most affected region of the country. We want to keep the layoff regime simplified until March 2021; to ensure greater flexibility in the payment of tax and contributive obligations; to launch a new program of employment measures and professional training specific to Algarve; to review the National Investment Program 2030, to ensure the investment that is fair for Algarve; to ensure access to the unemployment subsidy and the stop subsidy of activity, reducing the warranty deadlines.
Member of the Liberal Initiative, João Cotrim de Figueiredo.
Deputies: The pandemic has in fact placed Algarve in a very difficult economic and social situation, the most difficult of the whole country. In a region where tourism is the main activity, we would have precised, indeed, of a government with more way to diplomacy, that would have known to use the epidemiological data and the political arguments to prevent that Portugal ends out of the air corridors, but within the black lists, all this lasts in a crucial time — the weeks before the summer — and in crucial countries, such as the UK. We recognize merit to this initiative of the PSD. Show concern with Algarve and goes in the right sense, when it predicts the reduction of the tax burden, the flexibility in the payment of taxes or the refinancing of the funds of the integrated network.
I call your attention to the time.
I will conclude, Mr. President, saying that in Portugal and in Algarve also cannot send the bureaucrates. These funds must be managed and applied by those who know how to generate wealth, with criteria, with strategy, with return and without waste, without compassion, without delay.
It has the word, for an intervention, Mr. Joaquina Matos, of the PS.
On the other hand, it is important to note that, in the context of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of
Deputy Joao Dias, of the PCP, for an intervention.
It is clear for all of us that the resolution of the resolution of the resolution of the resolution of the resolution of the resolution of the resolution of the resolution of the resolution of the resolution of the resolution of the resolution of the resolution of the resolution of the resolution of the resolution of the resolution of the resolution of the resolution of the resolution of the resolution of the resolution of the resolution of the resolution of the resolution of the resolution of the resolution of the resolution of the resolution of the resolution of the resolution of the resolution of the resolution of the resolution.
Exactly!
Let’s go to concrete data: is the PSD concerned about the dismissals and the violation of the right to freedom and syndical activity of the workers of the Praia Resort, in Algarve? is the PSD concerned about what happened in the Vilanova Resort, which received money from the layoff and continues with workers with salaries in retardation? is the PSD concerned about the failure to comply with the company agreement of the INATEL Foundation? is this situation unacceptable, since it is a public utility entity, under the guarantee of social security, which has workers for more than 20 years to receive the minimum wage and workers to be pressed with the hiring of temporary work companies to replace workers in strike.
You have the word to Mr. Deputy Bebiana Cunha, of the PAN, for an intervention.
Deputies: It is obvious that the prescription is a short journey in time. It is countless times, in this seat and in the municipal assemblies of the consumption of the region where the PAN has the seat, we have alerted that in this seat the government is not the prescription of the water, we have not the prescription of the water, we have not the prescription of the water, we have not the prescription of the water, we have not the prescription of the water, we have not the prescription of the water, we have not the prescription of the water, we have not the prescription of the water, we have not the prescription of the water, we have not the prescription of the water, we have not the prescription of the water.
You have the word to Mr. Deputy Mariana Silva, from the PEV, for an intervention.
Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies.
I think it’s a good thing to do, but I think it’s a good thing to do.
It is clear that all your country, not only the Algarve, and we have lived, in recent months, with the consequences of a pandemic and social crisis; but it is also lived, often, with the consequences of another crisis, which is the crisis of competence of the Government. This crisis of competence of the Government goes to the project of power applied especially to the Algarve, because, in the very moment, the people that have the right thing to change the right thing to change the right thing to change the right thing to change the right thing to change the right thing to change the right thing to change the right thing to change the right thing to change the right thing.
Member of the European Parliament, João Vasconcelos.
Deputies, the first thing I have to say to the Deputies of the PSD is: welcome to the discussion on the economic and social crisis in Algarve.
Welcome to!
There are several different types of foods that can be found in this category: foodstuffs, foodstuffs, foodstuffs, foodstuffs, foodstuffs, foodstuffs, foodstuffs, foodstuffs, foodstuffs, foodstuffs, foodstuffs, foodstuffs, foodstuffs, foodstuffs, foodstuffs, foodstuffs, foodstuffs, foodstuffs, foodstuffs, foodstuffs, foodstuffs, foodstuffs, foodstuffs, foodstuffs, foodstuffs and other foodstuffs.
The Northern Christian.
Deputies: Algarve has been saved from the pandemic but faces an economic and social epidemic of unparallel proportions, where unemployment rises scary...
Will you take your responsibility?
... six times in comparison today they know the national average December they can recover the measures that the government is better that the government is better that the government is better that the government is better that the government is better that the government is better that the government is better that the government is better that the government is better that the government is better that the government is better that the government is better that the government is better that the government is better that the government is better that the government is better that the government is better that the government is better that the government is better that the government is better that the government is better that the government is better that the government is better that the government is better that the government is better that the government is better that the government is better that the government is better that the government is better that the government is better that the government is better that the government is better.
That’s what you want to do. – That’s what you want to do.
Deputy Luís Graça, of the PS.
Deputies: Algarve is one of the most beautiful regions and has no tourism more. We have no British tourists to more or Portuguese to more. We are one of the best tourist destinations in Europe and we want and will continue to be one of the best tourist destinations in Europe. What the Government did when announcing with the European Commission a 300 million euros supplementary support for the economy of Algarve was the first big recovery measure of the region, because it is the first serious incentive for Algarve to extend its economic base and does not depend only and exclusively on tourism.
Please pay attention to time.
I’m going to finish Mr. President. What is that the PSD proposes for the Algarve? Training, how did you when you were in the Government, when the last crisis, for those available in the public function? We already know that it is against the increase in the minimum wage. And what proposes? Support for the hiring of POC (occupational programs), without any kind of stability? Uncertain employment? This is your program for the Algarve? Aplauses of the PS. Protests of the Deputy of the PSD Christopher North. We don’t want to return to that time! We don’t need to return to that time. Aplauses of the PS.
Rui Cristina of the PSD.
Deputies: The Deputies of the PSD, elected by Algarve, made numerous alerts, from May 2020, regarding the peculiarities of the Algarve economy.
Well remembered!
We present, therefore, a program to respond to the concrete difficulties of the companies and families in Algarve. It is not a vago program, without concrete goals, without defined priorities, as it is the recovery of this Government; it is, yes, a caderno of charges of the region is only 5% ambitious, that shows our firm will for the future of the Deputies, and that of the Deputies for the future of the Deputies for the future of the Deputies for the future of the Deputies for the future of the Deputies for the future of the Deputies for the future of the Deputies for the future of the Deputies for the future of the Deputies for the future of the Deputies.
Deputies, let’s now go to point 3 of our work order that consists of the joint assessment of the Projects of Law No. 414/XIV/1.a (BE) — Determine the legal regime applicable to the transmission of a company or establishment by clarificing its application in the situations of provision of surveillance, food or cleaning services (16. amendment of the Labour Code), 448/XIV/1.a (PS) — Introduce an interpretative standard of Article 285 of the Labour Code, making its application mandatory to the award, by public tender, of public services, and 503/XIV/1.a (PCP) — Defends and strengthens the rights of workers in the case of transmission of a company or private sector, by the public tender or by any other means of public tender.
For example, if you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company.
I call your attention to the time.
What doesn’t seem acceptable to us is that the Parliament remains with cross arms in front of what’s going on.
Deputy Fernando José.
Deputies: After January 2018, we meet again to discuss this topic of establishment transmission. I want to greet the Left Bloc and also the Portuguese Communist Party for bringing this topic. Despite the change made at the time, there are still companies that fear not to comply. Although, through collective hiring, the parties have managed to get to understanding about establishment transmission, in the cleaning sector, there are still companies that fear not to comply. And, in the surveillance sector, despite the recent understanding between an association of employers and several trade unions on the issue of establishment transmission, collective hiring has not yet managed to solve this flag. That is why it is necessary here, in the House, if they take concrete measures to solve this problem for a lot more time.
very well!
For the Socialist Party, the defense of the rights of the workers is interpreted by the Socialist Party, the defense of the rights of the workers is based on the fulfilment of this figure of the work: in the reposition and in the protection of the rights of the Communist Party, the defense of the rights of the rights of the Communist Party, the defense of the rights of the Communist Party, the defense of the rights of the Communist Party, the defense of the rights of the Communist Party, the defense of the rights of the Communist Party, the defense of the rights of the Communist Party, the defense of the rights of the Communist Party, the defense of the rights of the Communist Party, the defense of the rights of the Communist Party, the defense of the rights of the Communist Party, the defense of the rights of the Communist Party
For the presentation of the PCP bill, the word has Mr. Deputy Diana Ferreira.
For example, if you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company; if you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company; if you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company; if you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company; if you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company; if you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company; if you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company; if you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company; if you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company; if you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company; if you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company; if you are a member of the company
This is the most important thing that we have to do in our lives, in our lives and in our lives.
Deputies: The state fails in the actions or in the lack of them and the proof of this is the presentation, by the Left Bloc, the PCP and the Socialist Party, of the bills here discussed for the change of the legal system of establishment transmission. Yes, because densification of legal diplomas, as now they call it euphemically, is just recognizing that they went wrong, that they went wrong.
very well!
For example, if you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company.
It has the word, for an intervention, Mr. Inês Deputy of Sousa Real, of the PAN.
It is therefore that, by proposal of the PAN and other parties, in 2018, the Parliament approved a set of advances that guaranteed the protection of the workers, within the scope of the transmission of the establishments could be adapted from the establishments, in the case of the transmission of the establishments, in the case of the transmission of the establishments of the establishments of the establishments of the establishments of the establishments of the establishments of the establishments of the establishments of the establishments of the establishments of the establishments of the establishments of the establishments of the establishments of the establishments of the establishments of the establishments of the establishments of the establishments of the establishments of the establishments of the establishments of the establishments of
Now well!
The three projects are forgotten, thus, that the resolution of this problem will always have to pass through regulation within the framework of a system of situations of succession of activity, topic that, often, is treated within the framework of collective conventions. Faced with the problems pointed out, I want to leave a final note, by the PAN, to emphasize that it seems to us of great importance that these projects go down, without voting, to the Commission, to be the subject of a more thorough technical analysis, by the experts, and that their discussion, in the specialty, can be made in conjunction with the draft laws, either of the PAN, or of the PSD, which deal precisely with a problem and that seek to ensure the protection of the workers of the concessionary entities that the employer transit to the public situation of the public, we are also
I am a member of the European Parliament and of the Council.
Deputies: We are dealing with a problem that the Parliament has been accompanying in recent times and that has given rise to several hearing and the presentation of concrete cases It happens that we are dealing with the specific subject of a law that was revised in 2018. Therefore, the first thing we have to consider is whether it makes sense to change a law that was revised so recently, according to concrete cases. I would say two things: it never makes sense to change the law according to concrete cases and much less when the law is recent.
It is true!
For, as we have already seen, the intention of the law in this proposal is to change the law that changes the problem can be frustrated and have the exact opposite effect for those who want to protect, who are the workers. For the application of the law, in the terms in which these parties want, now, that the law is defined, can be favorable to the workers who here brought the law the problem, namely those of the area of private security, but to the other workers in this case that the law is the case that it is the case that it is the case that it is the case that it is the case that it is the case that it is the case that it is the case that it is the case that it is the case that it is the case that it is the case that it is the case that it is the case that it is the case that it is the case that it is the case that it is the
The Deputy.
I will finish, Mr. President. With the bills presented here it is not possible to have that certainty.
Deputy Fernando José of the PS.
Deputies: Mr. Deputy Olga Silvestre, with all the respect I have for you, it seems to me what the PSD remains out of play and without realizing what is here in question. The problem is not of the Government that solves it, almost completely. The problem was not caused by the Government. The problem was not caused by the Government of the Socialist Party, but also has not been caused by the Government of the PSD/CDS. This is a problem that runs in time, it is a problem that has to do with a non-compliance by the companies. In the cleaning sector, the employer associations and trade unions perceived the problem and introduced a clause in the collective hiring that solves it, almost completely. But even so, they continue to exist companies that don't want to comply. The other issue is that the private sector has
No is, no is!
And what we are here want to do is to clarify article 285, saying that it is applied to public contracts. It is as simple as that.
It doesn’t stay, no!
Therefore, from the moment we succeed here to solve this problem, the workers will cease to have the uncertainty of knowing, when they are transferred to another company, if they will receive their salary, if they will have the right to unemployment subsidy. That’s what is here in question and therefore we have to act. This is the time to act and to fight this flagel of labor precariety, which has stopped for many and many years, for too long. This is the problem, the problem is not of the Government or ACT.
It is also!
What is intended here is to clarify, with respect to these contracts, whether article 285 of the Labour Code applies or not.
You have the word, to end your time, Mr. Deputy Diana Ferreira, of the PCP.
Deputies, Mr. Deputy of the PSD, I would like to highlight that, about the companies that have failed to work legislation, relative to these workers, Mr. Deputy said nothing about these companies was absolutely zero. What Mr. Deputy said to workers that are in brutal instability, that they are not in the work legislation and that, on the other hand, they have made pressure on hundreds of workers to withdraw from their labor rights and, even, to withdraw from their labor rights in the framework of the PC. but, to withdraw from their public rights in the course of the year. It is of this reality that we are talking about Mr. Deputy, and what Mr. Deputy said about these companies was absolutely zero. What Mr. Deputy said to workers that are in brutal instability, that they are not in the work, and that is not in the
We are going to close the phase of this debate. deputy José Soeiro, of the Left Bloc.
Deputies: By the proposal of the Bloc of Ratifications of the Left, they go about 60% that the Commission of Labour and Social Security proposes that the Commission of Labour and Social Security proposes that the Commission of Labour and Social Security proposes that the Commission of Labour and Social Security proposes that the Commission of Labour and Social Security proposes that the Commission of Labour and Social Security proposes that the Commission of Labour and Social Security proposes that the Commission of Labour and Social Security proposes that the Commission of Labour and Social Security proposes that the Commission of Labour and Social Security proposes that the Commission of Labour and Social Security proposes that the Commission of Labour and Social Security proposes that the Commission of Labour and Social Security proposes that the Commission of Labour and Social Security proposes that the Commission of Labour and Social Security proposes that the Commission of Labour and
Exactly!
... to prevent dumping through the standards set in the charges frameworks, to prevent the dumping that is ongoing and that is done through a theft of workers' rights, to clarify the obligation ofining all these contracts, to value the companies that are compliant. Deputy João Almeida, that we have already done. It was also spoken here in the Authority for Work Conditions. For, of course, we all think that the Authority for Work Conditions has to have a faster intervention. And if there was intervention in many of these cases was under the pressure of the complaints of the trade unions and also, for example, of the Bloc de Esquerda, who wrote to the ACT, that he met ACT, that he interpeled the Government that there are even conventions that the STADs have designed to protect the workers, so we know that
Deputy has to finish.
I conclude, Mr. President, saying that the law should not allow any window or any possibility of fraudulent use. That’s what we want to fight and we hope to get to the good port.
We now go to point 4 of the work order, which consists in the general assessment of the Law Projects No. 372/XIV/1.a (PCP) — Establishment of a system for strengthening workers in social equipment and revocation of Portaria No. 82-C/2020, of 31 March, 490/XIV/1.a (CDS- PP) — Updated by 6% of the Cooperation Commitment made with the entities of the social and solidarity sector and 504/XIV/1.a (BE) — Conversion in employment contract of the scholarships of recruited professionals for strengthening the support to homes and other social equipment.
For example, if you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company.
Exactly!
It is time for the State, in the case, through social security, to take effective steps in the assumption of responsibilities in this social area. It is necessary to give a response to the problems and difficulties of the State that cannot be transferred to the IPSS, as it has been done by successive governments, but that must be inserted in a wider response that intervenes on the structural problems that affect the network of equipment and services in the area of social action. The guarantee of social rights, including the existence of equipment and services to support the elderly, but also to the children, to the youth, to the people with disabilities and to other social dimensions, is a primary responsibility of the State that cannot be transferred to the IPSS, as it has been done by successive governments, without prejudice to the role of complementing these have in
Attention to your time, Mr.
He said, which means the strengthening of the conditions of response of the institutions in the most diverse valentines, including in the homes for elderly, means more rights for the workers who are hired and means a greater responsibility of the State over these answers.
Member of the European Parliament, João Pinho de Almeida.
If you are a member of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board,
President José Moura Soeiro.
This is the most important thing in the world, the most important thing in the world, the most important thing in the world, the most important thing in the world, the most important thing in the world, the most important thing in the world, the most important thing in the world, the most important thing in the world, the most important thing in the world, the most important thing in the world, the most important thing in the world, the most important thing in the world, the most important thing in the world, the most important thing in the world, the most important thing in the world, the most important thing in the world, and the most important thing in the world.
We are now on the phase of interventions. deputy José Luís Ferreira, of the PEV.
Deputies: The LOVID-19, which means that the LOVID-19, which means that the LOVID-19, which means that the LOVID-19, which means that the LOVID-19, which means that the LOVID-19, which means that the LOVID-19, which means that the LOVID-19, which means that the LOVID-19, which means that the LOVID-19, which means that the LOVID-19, which means that the LOVID-19, which means that the LOVID-19, which means that the LOVID-19, which means that the LOVID-19, which means that the LOVID-19, which means that the LOVID-19, which means that the LOVID-19, which means that the LOVID-19, which means that the LOVID-19, which means that the LOVID-19, which means that the LOVID-1
I think it’s a good thing to do, but I think it’s a good thing to do.
Deputies: There is something especially censurable when someone wants to take advantage of the misfortune for his own benefit. More serious even when this take advantage is of political nature and comes cynically disguised of concern with those who effectively need. The Block and the PCP present us today two draft laws that, pretending to be a response to the real problem of the lack of means in various social equipment, what in the background they intend is to fat the State in a definitive way to face a need that is temporarily desired. But for these statistics everything is pretext to favour the State and ignore the people. In the PCP project, the initial six-month contracts are automatically transformed into unlimited contracts, without any verification of their real need. It is not a matter of time, it is not a matter of time, it is not a matter of time,
I call your attention to the time.
I’m going to finish, Mr. President. And the fault of this lack is of the Government of the PS, which likes to do social policy with the money of others. As well remembered the other draft law, of the authority of the CDS, here also in debate today, the Government of the PS did not even want to update the cooperation contracts with thousands of units of social equipment.
Deputy, you have to finish.
To take advantage of the misfortune to make politics is, in fact, cynicism. These leftist parties’ projects are a good example of that.
The market has to be resolved.
For an intervention, you have the word to Mr. Deputy Bebiana Cunha, of the PAN.
Deputies: What does our policy for the institutionalization of our elderly people don't know about this proposal, what does the government don't know about it, what does the government don't know about it, what does the government don't know about it, what does the government don't know about it, what does the government don't know about it, what does the government don't know about it, what does the government don't know about it, what does the government don't know about it, what does the government don't know about it, what does the government don't know about it, what does the government don't know about it, what does the government don't know about it, what does the government don't know about it.
I call your attention to the time.
In our understanding, it is urgent to clarify this, facing the specificities of work at the level of the social economy and the provision of care for our elderly.
For an intervention, you have the word to Mr. Deputy Carla Madureira, of the PSD.
It is the most important part of the world, and the most important part of the world, the most important part of the world, the most important part of the world, the most important part of the world, the most important part of the world, the most important part of the world, the most important part of the world, the most important part of the world, the most important part of the world, the most important part of the world, the most important part of the world, the most important part of the world, and the most important part of the world.
I am paying attention to the time.
In fact, we have to leave here a word of appreciation to the IPSS, which are developing a truly extraordinary work, even in a situation of crisis.
Deputy Hugo Oliveira, of the PS.
Deputies: Let’s discuss today, here, three bills, where the PCP aims to create a system of strengthening workers in social equipment and the revocation of the gateway mentioned in it. The left block bill aims to convert into employment contract of the scholarships of recruited professionals for the strengthening of support to households and other social equipment and the CDS has the purpose of updating, in this time, the CD project has the purpose of updating, in 6%, of the commitment to cooperation held with the entities of the social and solidarity sector. Let’s let me start by referring me to the left block and the PCP’s projects, to say that exceptional times require, they also, exceptional measures. The program of support measures for the strengthening of social equipment and other social equipment says that it is not a permanent constitution of the CD project
No no no!
It appears again as a new, newly born party, but that new party that the CDS wants to be is a party that has history, has government history and the PS will not let it try to hide. In this recent history, the CDS had government responsibilities from 2011 to 2015, being even of the CDS the Minister of Social Security. During these four years of the CDS/PSD Government, the increase in cooperation agreements was 9,5%.
What is the cost? it was good.
And, at the beginning of the year 2020, there was an increase of more than 3.5%, which is the largest since 2009, when there was no pandemic. Repeat, the largest increase since 2009! Aplaus of the PS. During the pandemic, there has already been another increase, an increase of 2%, thus giving a sign of the government’s strong commitment to the promotion of the partnership with the third sector. Easyly we all realize that the CDS, in the opposition, asks a lot but when in the Government, it is very little. Aplaus of the PS. CDS, this project is not just the largest since 2009! Aplaus of the PS. During the pandemic, there has been another increase, an increase of 2%, thus giving a sign of the government’s strong commitment to the promotion of the partnership with the third sector.
and yes!
So what did the CDS do to the families when it was Government? to the institutions we all realize that it gave very little, but, I repeat, and to the families what the CDS did to the families? to the families cut, cut, cut. to the PS. Protests of the PSD Deputy Clara Marques Mendes. cut salaries, cut pensions, cut the social supplement for elderly and other social subsidies. And what did the PS to the families? the PS reversed all these cuts, increasing salaries, pensions and social subsidies. to the PS. and did all this at the same time that guaranteed the sustainability of social security and that achieved the best budget exercises of our democracy. the CDS crises to the State as an opportunity to reduce the social crisis to a better way.
From here to the palm!
I am paying attention to time.
This is a huge difference between us and it is also because of that difference that the majority of the Portuguese, to the present day, will say that they want to continue to see the CDS, in the opposition, to promise and the PS, in the Government, to fulfill.
You believe what you are saying!
Deputy André Ventura, from Chega.
Deputies: I’m going to make an intervention, but I’ve already changed. After hearing this intervention from our colleague Hugo Oliveira I decided to change my intervention to a free intervention, as it is usual to say. Therefore, I start by frying the enormous cynicism that the left has in this debate, that’s because when the budget for inspection falls 17% and the budget for social equipment falls 23%, the PCP and the left block voted for the Socialist Party budget. Now they come here and ask where the social equipment is, but they voted for the Socialist Party budget.
Now is!
Deputy Hugo Oliveira says that “with us is to take seriously and reverse all the revenues of the Portuguese.” Deputy, his Secretary-General, José Luís Carneiro, said a month and three days ago the following: “For us, the fight against precariety in all sectors will be fundamental.” Deputy, if you look at the standards that are in force in the field of health and social equipment, no one would say that the fight of the Socialist Party is to precariety, which goes from the Prime Minister’s office to the Misericordia, where there is only precariety.
I am paying attention to time.
I will finish, Mr. President. Deputy say ostensively, as if you were making a background intervention, that the PS solved a situation that the PSD and the CDS left, it can only be of an enormous political cynism, greater than that of the Left Block and the PCP that, although reducing the social budget, approve your Budget.
Deputy André Ventura, thanked that there was some care in the use of some phrases, since this his last phrase was not pleasant, neither from a personal point of view nor from a parliamentary point of view.
I was not talking to the speaker, I was talking up there!
He is a member of the House of Representatives, José Soeiro, who has 50 seconds.
Deputies: What separates the left and the right in this debate is not to know if the state should pay these care. In addition, the CDS presents itself in this debate proposing a reinforcement of the role of the state, but I ask: what reinforcement of the role of the state? that of the funding of the IPSS? More 90 million for the IPSS is what results from the CDS project.
Just that we don't know what counterparts, neither from the point of view of the work framework nor of the care that are provided. That's why the criticism of the statism of the Liberal Initiative is an anedota. Deputy of the Liberal Initiative, propose here the end of the cooperation agreements between the State and the IPSS, propose the end of the state financing to the private sector, because it's the State that finances these workers, it's the State that pays the workers of the IPSS through the cooperation agreements. It's the State, through the IEFP and the scholarships, that pays the workers that will strengthen the social equipment.
I am paying attention to time.
The question is whether we want the state to finance these forms of extreme precariety or whether we think there should be counterparts. We say that, yes gentleman, there is strengthening of professionals but with a contract; we say that, yes gentleman, whenever the professionals are fulfilling permanent needs they must have an unlimited contract...
Deputy, thank you very much.
...and if they are replacing other workers they must, of course, have a deadline contract. That’s what the left bloc project proposes and that’s what makes justice and strengthens care.
We will move to the closing phase and, since the initiative is of the PCP, has, since now, the word to Mr. Deputy Diana Ferreira, of the PCP.
Deputy of the PS all: I want to start by saying that the problem that is living in the plots that the name of the plots is far from being a temporary or exceptional problem and it is exactly why the PCP presents this proposal, in order to contribute to resolve in definitive a problem with which the institutions of the social sector face for many years, that is the lack of workers, which, with this proposal in the plots that the plots in the plots that the PCP here presents, can be resolved in a definitive way that the plots in the plots that the plots in the plots that the plots in the plots that the plots in the plots that the plots in the plots that the plots in the plots that the plots in the plots that the plots in the plots that the plots in the plots that the
Deputies, we enter the point 5, and last, of the work agenda, which consists in the debate of the draft resolution no. 99/XIV — Recommend to the Government the preparation of concrete, and permanent measures aimed at minimizing the effects of drought, presented by the CDS-PP, and of the draft law no. 155/XIV (PCP) — Creates the National Plan for the Structural Prevention of the Effects of drought and its follow-up and 502/XIV (DEP not registered Cristina Rodrigues) — Creates the plan for the prevention and adaptation of the territory to the effects of drought.
The problem is that all of them are consently consently consently consently consently consently consently consently consently consently consently consently consently consently consently consently consently consently consently consently consently consently consently consently consently consently consently consently consently consently consently consently consently consently consently consently consently consently consently consently consently consently consently consently consently consently consently consently consently consently consently consently consently consently consently consently consently consently.
Member of the European Parliament, João Dias.
Deputies: it is the name and the resource of the water, it is the name and the resource of the water, it is the name and the resource of the water, it is the name and the resource of the water, it is the name and the resource of the water, it is the name and the resource of the water, it is the name and the resource of the water, it is the name and the resource of the water, it is the name and the resource of the water, it is the name and the resource of the water, it is the name and the resource of the water, it is the name and the resource of the water.
To present his legislative initiative, he has the word to Mr. Deputy Cristina Rodrigues.
Deputies: In 2017 the Prevention, Monitoring and Continuity Plan for Dry Situations was approved. However, the Prevention axis only presents a list of empty measures, without targets for their realization, without mentioning how the strategies and programs will be applied and which bodies responsible for their implementation. For the expected relevance the adaptability of agricultural crops to the edafoclimatic conditions, the over-exploitation of water resources in superintensive agricultural activities in areas predisposed to water deficiency, as well as the factors such as the desertification of soils and the decrease of water quality, due to the use of excessive fertilizers and pesticides on the methyl-exploitation were not considered with the expected relevance of the adaptability of agricultural crops to the edafoclimatic conditions
Deputy Ricardo Vicente of the Left Bloc.
For this reason, it is important to note that there is an increase in the number of people living in the world, and there is an increase in the number of people living in the world and there is an increase in the number of people living in the world and there is an increase in the number of people living in the world and there is an increase in the number of people living in the world and there is an increase in the number of people living in the world and there is an increase in the number of people living in the world and there is an increase in the number of people living in the world.
It has the word, by the Parliamentary Group of the PAN, Mr. Deputy Bebiana Cunha, for an intervention.
We are sorry that the CDS is forgotten of the main water efficiency when it promotes the intense agriculture, and the CDS is forgotten of the existing water resources, whether in quantity or in quality. About the barragens, Mr. Deputy is not guaranteed of the fact that we are not forgotten of the interests in the ecosystems, Mr. Deputy is not forgotten of the interests in the ecosystems, Mr. Deputy is not forgotten of the interests in the ecosystems, Mr. Deputy is not forgotten of the interests in the ecosystems, Mr. Deputy is not forgotten of the interests in the ecosystems, Mr. Deputy is not forgotten of the interests in the ecosystems.
Deputy Rui Cristina, of the PSD, for an intervention.
For example, if you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company.
You have now the word to Mr. Deputy Mariana Silva, from The Greens, for an intervention.
Deputies: We discuss one of the most predictive problems of our time that gasta the last case that the ministry does not want to know that the agriculture does not want to love, that of climate change, that of agriculture does not want to see, that of the average incidences in the dry in our territory, with particular gravity in the region to the south of the Tejo but on the other hand, it seems to generate consensus, the way to fight and mitigate its effects, on the other hand, the ecologist party has come to alert for this problem for decades ago and, therefore, compares with good eyes the consensus that, on the other hand, the ministry does not want to know that the current case of the ministry does not want to know that the current case of the ministry does not want to know that the current case of the minist
Mr President, I ask for the word.
Mr. Paula Santos, do you ask the word for what effect?
I wanted to make a question to the table, Mr. President.
What is the problem in conducting the work?
I think it’s a good thing to do, but I think it’s a good thing to do, it’s a good thing to do, it’s a good thing to do.
Thank you very much Mr. Deputy.
No one is obliged to know that!
and dishonesty!
I don’t have a crystal ball!
Deputy André Ventura, from Chega, for an intervention.
Deputies: I wanted to start by apologizing to Deputy Pedro Sousa, for having sent him to play violin home. It’s not my style of making politics, but here’s the apologizing request for the effects of the drought in July and August of this year. Protests of the PS. Portugal consumes more water than should, this becomes obvious. But we also have to realize that 74% of water consumption in Portugal is for agriculture and for livestock. So far, Portugal deserves a much more effective plan, if there’s some plan, in defense, especially, importantly, when we look at the data of the effects of the drought in July and August of this year. We don’t have. But what we have is a dissertation from Mr. Minister of Environment and Climatics, it’s not said that we have the following party
The Deputy.
Algarve wants to know where this plan is and today was a good day to give that answer.
Deputy Norberto Patinho, of the Parliamentary Group of the PS, for an intervention.
For the purposes of this Agreement of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament
The Deputy.
I will conclude, Mr. President. The constant concerns of the exposures of the reasons of the projects in consideration have been assumed in terms of planning and integration into the existing and implementing plans. The path is going, the proposals that are presented to us have nothing new. just repeating and doubling much of what the Government is doing.
In order to end the debate, Mr. Cecilia Meireles has the word.
For some parties, and for one in particular, I suppose that food and food are even the enemies of the climate and this perception of the environment. Now, I would like to say that I have a view that the climate and this perception of the environment. Now, I would like to say that it is a view that the climate and this perception of the environment. Now, I would like to say that it is a view that the climate and this perception of the environment. Now, I would like to say that it is a view that the climate and this perception of the environment. Now, I would like to say that it is a view that the climate and this perception of the environment. Now, I would like to say that it is a view that the climate and this perception of the environment. Now, I would like to say that it is a view that the climate and this perception
We have come, so, to the end of our agenda today. Secretary of the table to announce the entrance of some initiatives.
Deputies, gave entry to the table, and were admitted, the draft resolution no. 663/XIV/2.a (CDS-PP) — Recommends the Government to open an emergency service at Dr. Francisco Zagalo Hospital, which descends to the 9th Commission, and the draft law no. 524/XIV/2.a (CH) — By increasing parental leave attributed to the mothers and parents of the country, contributing in this way to a strengthening of family ties and consequently the birth rate.
In the first place, we will proceed to reapreciation of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No. 46/XIV — Third amendment to the National Law No. 43/2006, of 25 August, relating to the follow-up, assessment and pronunciation of the National Assembly of the Republic No. 4/XIV, of the Republic No. 4/XIV, of the Republic No. 4/XIV, of the Republic No. 4/XIV, of the Republic No. 4/XIV, of the Republic No. 4/XIV, of the Republic No. 4/XIV, of the Republic No. 4/XIV, of the Republic No. 4/XIV, of the Republic No. 4/XIV, of the Republic No. 4/XIV, of the Republic No. 4/XIV, of the Republic No. 4/
In this case, it is necessary to ensure that you have the right to obtain the right to obtain the right to obtain the right to obtain the right to obtain the right to obtain the right to obtain the right to obtain the right to obtain the right to obtain the right to obtain the right.
Deputies: In relation to this Decree No. 46/XIV, on the follow-up, by the Assembly of the Republic, of the process of building the European Union, the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party analyzed with all care the repairs of Mr. President of the Republic. We have already submitted amendment proposals, in the sense of giving them welcome, i.e., to predict the realization, per semester, of two preparatory debates of the European Council, aligning, thus, with what is written in Article 15 of the Treaty of the European Union, which fixes precisely the number of European Councils per semester in two, ordinary.
This is the first time I’ve been able to do it, and I’ve been able to do it.
Mr. President, we are here again discussing the amendments that were proposed by the PSD, and also approved by the Socialist Party, on the change of the model of the debates on the European Council. When we presented them it was because we considered that the debates on European matters did not have the appropriate space and deserved, nor the relevance that all or, at least, the majority of this Parliament attributes to the European matters.
very well!
Mr. President, S. Ex.a the President of the Republic veto that the debate is not so much. the President of the Republic veto that the debate is not so much. the President of the Republic veto that the debate is not so much. the President of the Republic veto that the debate is not so much. the President of the Republic veto that the debate is not so much. the President of the Republic veto that the President of the Republic veto that the President of the Republic veto that the President of the Republic veto that the President of the Republic veto that the President of the Republic veto that the President of the Republic veto that the President of the Republic veto that the President of the Republic veto that the President of the Republic veto that the President of the Republic veto that the President of the Republic veto that the President of the Republic veto that the President of the Republic veto that the President
very well!
Mr. President, forgive me the expression, but it’s almost like making a game between Benfica and Sporting and, then, put a game that’s treated as being of the second division when it’s not. After seeing a Benfica-Sporting, seeing a Benfica-Braga or a Braga-Porto, soon then, — just because people are already tired! —, no one is more attentive, because our attention also disconnects. It’s to ensure that the European debate is not an attachment to the fifth debates or the thematic debates that we leave this suggestion, because still this week the same thing has happened again.
There is no more five-year debate.
You now have the word to Mr. Deputy Fabíola Cardoso, of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Bloc.
It is a good news for the Republic and it is a good news for the Republic and it is a good news for the Republic and it is a good news for the Republic and it is a good news for the Republic and it is a good news for the Republic and it is a good news for the Republic and it is a good news for the Republic and it is a good news for the Republic and it is a good news for the Republic and it is a good news for the Republic and it is a good news for the Republic and it is a good news for the Republic and it is a good news for the Republic and it is a good news for the Republic and it is a good news for the Republic and it is a good news for the Republic and it is a good news for the Republic and it is a good news for the Republic.
It is now the turn of the Greens. deputy José Luís Ferreira.
Deputies: If, in the case of the reapreciation of the Decree that we will do next, regarding the amendments to the law of the exercise of the petitions, the PSD and the PS intended to give a true facade in participative democracy, in the case of this Decree, around the reduction of the debates on European matters, the PSD and the PS intend to give a facade in representative democracy.
They are not six!
Now, this pretense represents, for the Greens, a monumental attack against one of the most noble powers or competences of this sovereign body, which is the Assembly of the Republic, with the worsening of being the supervision of the government’s activity within the framework of European matters where, outside this debate, little scrutiny is objectively possible to do. But it is still a proposal that is inserted in a more global effort to weaken the powers of the Assembly of the Republic. A package that included, also, the limitations intended for the rise of the petitions to the Plenary or the reduction of the number of discussions with the Prime Minister.
This is another point!
It happens that by weakening substantially the competences of the Assembly of the Republic, we are, of course, weakening also the democracy itself. This beyond being a proposal that in no way contributes to credibilizing this sovereign body, well by the opposite. Therefore, the Greens voted against these proposals and we consider that well decided Mr. President of the Republic, because it is a proposal that nothing interests our democratic life and the parliamentary life. It is, in our view, a proposal that is absolutely unqualified and whose purpose is only understandable if the reasons that led the PSD and the PS to bring it to the debate and the vote are linked to the receipt of the political struggle by the Prime Minister of the Republic and the Prime Minister of the Republic.
I am a member of the European Parliament and of the Council.
It is not a matter of fact that it is a matter of fact that it is a matter of fact that it is a matter of fact that it is a matter of fact that it is a matter of fact that it is a matter of fact that it is a matter of fact that it is a matter of fact that it is a matter of fact that it is a matter of fact that it is a matter of fact that it is a matter of fact that it is a matter of fact that it is a matter of fact that it is a matter of fact that it is a matter of fact that it is a matter of fact that it is a matter of fact that it is a matter of fact that it is a matter of fact that it is a matter of fact that it is a matter of fact that it is a matter of fact that it is a matter of fact that it is a matter of fact that it is a matter of fact.
It is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of
Deputy Juan Cotrim de Figueiredo initially proposed by the Liberal Initiative. Deputies: The time of the Veto of Mr. President of the Republic, who decided, finally, nor would it be for a short moment, motivated by the European Union an inert and useless thing, to exchange the selfies for the work of ensuring the regular functioning of the institutions, allows us to again discuss the decrease of the number of debates on the European matters approved. already here the PS said: this proposal is that on the one hand, the government does not develop the political matters and on the other hand, the government does not develop the political matters and on the other hand, it does not develop the political matters and on the other hand, it does not develop the political matters and on the other hand, it does not develop the political matters and on the other hand
It has the word, for a further intervention, Mr. Deputat Inês de Sousa Real dignificers this time, from the Parliamentary Group of the PAN. Deputies: Mr. President of the Republic, from the first moment, also opposed this change, whether in fact, in relation to the preparatory debates for the European Council, whether in the reduction of these five-year debates or other forms of participation, in particular, they turn to the policy, because the position of the central block does not change a more a more a more a more a more a more a more a more a more a more a more a more a more a more a more a more a more a more a more a more a more a more a more a more a more a more a more a more a more a more a more a more a more a more a more a more a more a more a more a more a more
Deputy André Ventura, from Chega. Deputies: The Chega was against this change and will again be against. We had, this week, the example of a prime minister who came here, he heard questions of all and didn't even hear questions of anyone and, in the end, he himself confused, by finding that he had to answer questions when, in the end, he had no longer to do it. It was what we managed with the changes in the Parliament: we managed to put the prime minister completely confused, without knowing whether he had to answer us or not, and a president of the Assembly of the Republic to have to correct it and to tell him that he was not even to answer our questions. It was what they managed in Portugal! More than that, they managed to reduce the debates that the European Prime Minister had to do four months and that he had to do it.
Oh the!
If today this standard is approved, Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa will have a new mission: vet it or explain to the Portuguese why it is that it has left it pass, now, equal or practically equal to what it was.
For one intervention, Mr. President Constanta Urbano de Sousa has the word, Mr. President Constanta Urbano de Sousa, Mr. President Constanta Urbano de Sousa, Mr. President Constanta Urbano de Sousa, Mr. President Constanta Urbano de Sousa, Mr. President Constanta Urbano de Sousa, Mr. President Constanta Urbano de Sousa, Mr. President Constanta Urbano de Sousa, Mr. President Constanta Urbano de Sousa, Mr. President Constanta Urbano de Sousa, Mr. President Constanta Urbano de Sousa, Mr. President Constanta Urbano de Sousa, Mr. President Constanta Urbano de Sousa, Mr. President Constanta Urbano de Sousa, Mr. President Constanta Urb
Deputy Duarte Marques, of the Parliamentary Group of the PSD. Deputies: This amendment had at least the condon to show that all parties, in the end, want the European Union and are favorable to the European Union.
Protests from the PCP and the PEV.
But there’s another thing with which, I think, we can agree: who is that considers that the debates on the European Council have gone well, have taken the space they deserve?
very well!
We have already realized that this overposition of discussions doesn’t work...
Go out, end up with them!
... and there are criticisms and doubts that are legitimate. I am here today, making this debate because I consider that there is an evolution in the positions that can be more effective. But it is also important to say that many people debate this topic and that they ignore the current rules...
Now is!
... because the rules have always admitted to mark all the debates they wanted. And there is another thing that also happened, that it was considering that the debate this week has already been by the new model of the Regiment. Deputies! This is still not the new model. Deputy André Ventura spoke here of the confusion that goes to the head of the Prime Minister, I think it goes a great confusion in his head, because here he speaks a lot of European values, but then his European companies are anti-democratic, anti-European, anti-human values, anti-European rights! I don't know what is the greatest confusion.
There are no more registrations, we pass to the second point of our agenda, which is also a reapreciation, this time of Decree No. 55/XIV — Fifth amendment to Law No. 43/90, of 10 August (Exercise of the right of petition).
Deputies: In the framework of the reapreciation of the Mr. President of the Republic veto on the changes to the exercise of the right to petition, we have the opportunity to review a topic in relation to which, again, the debate did not rely on the objectives to which the proposal was proposed. As mentioned, we have a problem, if we want, with the assessment of the petitions, since we have an extraordinary significant delay in the response time that the Parliament often gives to citizens.
And about the veto will say something?
For this purpose, it was intended to rationalize the way we organize the debate in order in order in order in order in order in order in order in order in order in order in order in order in order in order in order in order in order in order in order in order in order in order in order in order in order in order in order in order in order in order in order in order in order in order in order in order in order in order in order in order in order in order in order in order in order in order in order in order in order in order in order in order.
The reporter is dismissed!
See one example: obviously not suffering, far from that, what is petitioned to the Parliament regarding the 25th April Celebration, the fact is that thousands of citizens addressed a petition to the Assembly of the Republic on the realization of the 25th April Celebration of this year, which will be appreciated, with some luck, next year, in 2021.
President José Luís Ferreira.
In the words of the Holy Prophet, the Holy Prophet, the Holy Prophet, the Holy Prophet, the Holy Prophet, the Holy Prophet, the Holy Prophet, the Holy Prophet, the Holy Prophet, the Holy Prophet, the Holy Prophet, the Holy Prophet, the Holy Prophet, the Holy Prophet, the Holy Prophet, the Holy Prophet, the Holy Prophet, the Holy Prophet, the Holy Prophet, the Holy Prophet, the Holy Prophet, the Holy Prophet, the Holy Prophet, the Holy Prophet, the Holy Prophet, the Holy Prophet, the Holy Prophet, the Holy Prophet, the Holy Prophet, and the Holy Prophet.
For an intervention, you have the word to Mr. Inês Deputy of Sousa Real.
Deputies: by the law, by the law, by the law, by the law, by the law, by the law, by the law, by the law, by the law, by the law, by the law, by the law, by the law, by the law, by the law, by the law, by the law, by the law, by the law, by the law.
I ask for the word, Mr. President.
The Deputy?
To defend the honour of the bank, Mr. President.
The Deputy?
I think it’s a good thing to do, but I think it’s a good thing to do, it’s a good thing to do, it’s a good thing to do.
Well, please keep on.
Mr. Deputies, Mr. Deputies, Mr. Deputies, Mr. Deputies, Mr. Deputies, Mr. Deputies, Mr. Deputies, Mr. Deputies, Mr. Deputies, Mr. Deputies, Mr. Deputies, Mr. Deputies, Mr. Deputies, Mr. Deputies, Mr. Deputies, Mr. Deputies, Mr. Deputies, Mr. Deputies, Mr. Deputies, Mr. Deputies, Mr. Deputies, Mr. Deputies, Mr. Deputies, Mr. Deputies, Mr. Deputies, Mr. Deputies, Mr. Deputies, Mr. Deputies, Mr. Deputies, Mr. Deputies, Mr. Deputies, Mr. Deputies, Mr. Deputies,
To give explanations, if you want, have the word to Mr. Inês de Sousa Real.
Mr. President, the PAN subscribes what I mentioned, because it seems to us that the PSD has to know how to honour what I said in my intervention, which is its historic genesis of democratic participation, of struggle for freedom and citizen participation. PSD protests. What we have seen in this House of Democracy is precisely the antithesis of what is in the founding genesis of the PSD.
I think it’s a good thing to do, but I think it’s a good thing to do.
Deputies: Again, the veto of Mr. President of the Republic, the one who exchanged the selfies for the work of President, will allow us to again discuss a diploma that passed in this Chamber and which would result in the decrease of the representation of the will of citizens through the instrument of the petitions. Reduce the capacity of citizens to discuss in the Plenary, in this Chamber, what they consider relevant, alleging that such discussion interferes in the parliamentary work, is denying a truth that must be repeated here. Parliamentary work is not only the to monitor the action of the Government, but it is also and, often, above all, the to give an answer and to do the concerns of the people.
António Filipe, member of the Parliamentary Group of the PCP.
Deputies: These proposals submitted by the Socialist Party, following the presidential veto of the diploma on the right to petition, are as regrettable as the text that gave rise precisely to that veto.
very well!
The question that is above the table has to do, fundamentally, with the reduction of participative democracy that was intended with the restriction of the right of 4000 citizens, subscribers of a petition, see the same being appreciated by the Plenary of the Assembly of the Republic. In the background, the basis of the veto was what we invoked to vote against this text, because it seems to us that, when it is so attacked, representative democracy does not defend itself by restricting participative democracy.
very well!
We keep our position and we consider that, just as it was legitimate that the Parliament is the same that the Parliament is the same that the Parliament is the same that the Parliament is the same that the Parliament is the same that the Parliament is the same that the Parliament is the same that the Parliament is the same that the Parliament is the same that the Parliament is the same that the Parliament is the same that the Parliament is the same that the Parliament is the same that the Parliament is the same that the Parliament is the same that the Parliament is the same that the Parliament is the same that the Parliament is the same that the Parliament is the same.
Member Telmo Correia.
Deputies: I would like to say, first, that in the origin of this veto was a change of the Republic whose arguments are not strongly discussed and that, of course, did not make any meaning. When what we discuss in Portugal, and not only, is a crisis of representative democracy and even a crisis of democracy in general, what proposes the PS and the PSD? They propose to decrease the rights of participation, to decrease the rights of citizens that when it should be exactly the opposite of this initiative. That’s why what was approved is, of course, a decrease of the rights of citizens, a decrease of the role of the Parliament in general, and a decrease of the role of the Parliament in general. That’s why, of course, we agree with the veto of the Republic. It is
very well!
It is certain that Mr. President of the Republic could not veto the Assembly Regime, because he was not in his ability to do so, but was in his ability to pronounce. The President of the Republic is not the Queen of England, which, as we know, murmures. The President of the Republic speaks and, in the rest, speaks abundantly on the most varied subjects, then, in our opinion, could have said anything about the end of the five-year debates. Maybe that discussion deserves another attention and another concern. In relation to what we have here, obviously that decreasing the rights of citizens is favouring populism, let’s be clear. And now, the proposals that bring us — the proposals that the Socialist Party brings us and, that I suppose, have the same majority of the original support — that they have had
The Deputy.
Mr. President, I will end by saying that this is a Solomonic solution, which obviously cannot deserve our approval. What was, was good and didn’t make sense to change. At least then, let them now go back and be clear about this.
Deputy Duarte Pacheco.
Deputies: We can already see, by the debate this morning and by the many debates outside of this House, that there is no limit for populism and for demagogy in this matter. In addition, Mr. President, it is good to think about passing to charging tax on demagogy, because we were with the public accounts deficit completely covered already in 2020. Demonstrations of the Deputy of the PCP Bruno Dias. Deputies? Sincerly, we cannot be from Monday to Friday to say that it is necessary to strengthen the role of parliamentary committees, to invest millions of euros — millions of euros, I repeat — to give the possibility of the work of the committees to be transmitted to the whole Country, that parliamentary committees are worthy to do a debate and investigate the candidates to the Constitutional Court
We know that, unfortunately, this is not true in most cases, creating false expectations. But, worse than that, the instrument that is still in force does the following: someone submits a petition, because he thinks that is a matter relevant, and then wait one, two or three years until that matter is discussed at the Plenary Assembly of the Republic. We were, this week, discussing 2013 petitions!
Exactly!
Are you aware of this?Do you realize that we are discussing petitions from the previous Legislature?!
What is the 2013? and it’s still talking about demagogy!
Deputies, I ask: what’s better, deceive people, saying “present, because we’ll quickly discuss your matter”, or saying “some will be appreciated in parliamentary committee, because it has the dignity that we understand it should have, and others in the Plenary of the Assembly of the Republic, so that in time that debate can effectively take place.”
But what was 2013?
Finally, this argument is presented: “Ah, but passing this to the committees is a democratic retreat!”. So let’s think the opposite, what’s very simple, because what we want is the progress of democracy and, instead of the 4000 signatures, we’re going down to 2000, to 1000, to 500, to 2, to 1, and we turn this House into simple petition debate and the parties have no time to schedule legislative initiatives or to make the debates that you think important — and are! — to monitor the government’s activity.
My friends?!
... you can't want everything at the same time. be realistic and realize that what you're saying is pure demagogy to hunt votes to the people who are less attentive. for us, we kept our initial position, without any move.
That was 15,000!
Deputy André Ventura, from Chega.
Deputies: It must be taken into account that, effectively, Mr. President of the Republic could not have vetoed the regimental rules of the Assembly of the Republic. He could not have done it, in an obvious logic of separation of powers. But, only in the last year, the President of the Republic talked about matters related to this, from the need for governmental agreements, as he did yesterday, passing through the need for the replacement of ministers, to the rotativity of ministers, to the time of meeting with the Prime Minister during the week. He was saving people on the beach, to enter the cities to give embraces and kisses, to walk on tractors, cars and bicycles and to get out on all matters. In the middle, he was to pronounce the programme and the various matches, he played all about the matter
The Deputy.
I will end, Mr. President, saying that the Assembly of the Republic cannot remain silent because, for the first time, a President of the Republic has remained silent about the Assembly.
This is the first time I’ve been able to do it, and I’ve been able to do it.
Deputies: It was too good Mr. President of the Republic to claim, in his message to this Assembly, that his veto was derived from an imperative of high civic consciousness of this PS in the aftermath, that his veto was derived from an imperative of high civic consciousness of this PS in the aftermath, that his veto was derived from an imperative of high civic consciousness of this PS in the aftermath, that his veto was derived from an imperative of high civic consciousness of this PS in the aftermath, that his veto was derived from high civic consciousness of this PS in the aftermath, that his veto was derived from high civic consciousness of this PS in the aftermath, that his veto was derived from high civic consciousness of this PS in
Then they will come with the language of the need to approach voters and elected. By the sampling, they will still have to invent another ruble in which, decreasing representativity, they enlarge representative democracy. Against all this, I want to affinate you, in the name of the Block of Left, that our civic consciousness implies us to resist and say “no” to these your maneuver.
Deputy Duarte Pacheco, of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
I didn’t ask the word!
The information we had on the table was that he was signing up to intervene...
He has said a lot of things!
If I want I can say more!
Deputy Pedro Delgado Alves, of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party.
Deputies: Very briefly, to conclude the debate, I want to leave two or three petitions regarding this agenda. First, I want to point out that, in relation to the scope of the initial proposal and the proposals of amendment here pointed out, the fact that there are petitions that take more than a year to be scheduled and discussed and there are citizens who remain without timely response to their concerns, apparently, no one is concerned with this issue for months. But this is the time that it is the problem that is on the basis of this agenda, this is the problem that is on the basis of this initiative, this is the problem that is on the basis of this initiative, this is the problem that is on the basis of the review of this agenda, this is the problem that is on the basis of this agenda, this is the problem that is on the basis of the
Deputy has to conclude.
I’m going to finish, Mr. President. Deputy Telmo Correia, the Salomon epite is not negative. The Salomon epite pulls for justice and for balance and that’s what it seeks to accompany in this way, with these proposals of amendment, so that people have a faster response and the Parliament tells the citizens what they intend to hear, which is a position on their petitions.
Deputies. we have arrived, so, at the end of the debate of this point of today’s agenda. I have to inform you that we have a number of Deputies registered more than enough to have a quorum. Therefore, parliamentary groups can provide in the direction of organizing themselves, with the presence of some Deputies in the Plenary and others in the cabinets.
Repeating our work, we will start at point 3 of today’s agenda, the joint discussion of Parliamentary Investigations No. 4/XIV/1.a (CH) — Establishment of a Parliamentary Investigation Commission for the financing of political campaigns by the Holy Spirit Group (GES), as well as the New Bank’s asset alienation operations, 5/XIV/1.a (BE) — Eventual Parliamentary Investigation Commission for the new bank’s damages attributed to the Resolution Fund, 6/XIV/1.a (IL) — Eventual Parliamentary Investigation Commission for the reasons of the New Bank’s damages and 7/XIV/2.a (PS) — Eventual Parliamentary Investigation Commission for the new Bank’s damages attributed
Deputies: We know, for these days, the argument must be spent the time in the regulations that the sales system is organized until the new and various details of the prosecutor's accusation in the case of the New Bank. We got to know that we were faced with crimes as serious millions as the Criminal Investment Association, corruption or the end of fraudulent schemes that then came to demand the Portuguese money, with the real money of the taxpayers, with the real money of the Portuguese. In the crossing of this process with the Operation Marquez we were also to know that the regulator is left in the form of the real money that the bank is left in the form of the real money that the bank is left in the form of the real money that the bank is left in the form of the real money that the bank is left in the form of the real money that
I call your attention to the time.
Today it is our responsibility to look at this money, to look at the money from the pockets of the Portuguese and to demand an endless investigation, without the need for expiatory weddings and without fear, to the one that was the greatest scandal in democracy, in Portugal, in the use of the money of taxpayers.
To present the legislative initiative of the Block of Left, have the word to Mr. Deputy Mariana Mortágua.
We know that it was the first step in the separation between the assets allegedly good and the assets allegedly good and the assets allegedly good and the assets allegedly good and the assets allegedly good and the assets allegedly good and the assets allegedly good and the assets allegedly good and the assets allegedly good and the assets allegedly good and the assets allegedly good and the assets allegedly good and the assets allegedly good and the assets allegedly good and the assets allegedly good and the assets allegedly good and the assets allegedly good and the assets allegedly good and the assets allegedly good and the assets allegedly good and the assets allegedly good.
I am a member of the House of Representatives and I am a member of the House.
Deputies: With regard to the New Bank, we have to assure all their responsibilities regarding the whole process that led to that that which may remain victories to be the greatest public money spending ever in Portugal. There are several judicial proceedings in the course to assess the illicitities committed by the responsible of the Group of the Holy Spirit, so the Parliament should not overcome these findings on all the proposals, but remains the obligations that will be founded and very important that the public will be able to assure the many events, decisions and responsibilities that, the New Bank, the new government, the new government, the new government, the new government, the new government, the new government, the new government, the new government, the new government, the new government, the new government, the new government, the new government, the new government, the new government, the new
Deputy Joao Paulo Correia.
In the meantime, in the meantime, in the meantime, in the meantime, in the meantime, in the meantime, in the meantime, in the meantime, in the meantime, in the meantime, in the meantime, in the meantime, in the meantime, in the meantime, in the meantime, in the meantime, in the meantime, in the meantime, in the meantime, in the meantime, in the meantime, in the meantime, in the meantime, in the meantime.
very well!
We agree and those who have doubts now have a chance, in the parliamentary investigation, to dissolve the doubts. We had three options: either it was sold as it was sold — only a proposal appeared — or it was liquidated, or it was nationalized. From our point of view, by the data we have today but the investigation will still deepen, the liquidation and nationalization had a very high cost, as it would also in 2015 and that’s why they chose to sell. Then it’s important to know why the audit points 140 disconformities to the New Bank administration and we have to know if these portfolios of assets, real estate and credit, or have not been sold to the discharge. This is the main goal of the parliamentary investigation, average income, without resolution from the day to the day.
We are now entering the phase of the interventions, so has the word Mr. Deputy Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN.
Deputies, under the management of all the accounts are liable in all the accounts are liable in all the accounts are liable in all the accounts are liable in all the accounts are liable in all the accounts are liable in all the accounts are liable in all the accounts are liable in all the accounts are liable in all the accounts are liable in all the accounts are liable in all the accounts are liable in all the accounts are liable in all the accounts are liable in all the accounts are liable in all the accounts are liable in all the accounts are liable in all the accounts are liable.
I call your attention to the time.
Since we are talking about the one who, for many years, was the bank of the regime, we cannot also let out the dangerous links of the BES and the New Bank to politics and some holders of political positions. Therefore, the PAN will enable all the proposals that are here being discussed for the creation of this eventual commission, under the penalty of not fulfilling what citizens expect from us and which are the clarifications that, at this moment, are required, as well as tracing the disadvantages that have occurred in the New Bank.
Deputy José Luís Ferreira of the PEV.
From the beginning of the day to the end of the day to the end of the day to the end of the day to the end of the day to the end of the day to the end of the day to the end of the day to the end of the day to the end of the day to the end of the day to the end of the day to the end of the day to the end of the day to the end of the day to the end of the day to the end of the day to the end of the day to the end of the day to the end of the day to the end of the day to the end of the day to the end of the day to the end of the day to the end of the day.
Deputy Duarte Alves of the PCP.
We discuss today several initiatives for the establishment of the CSR and the CSR and the CSR and the CSR and the CSR and the CSR and the CSR and the CSR and the CSR and the CSR and the CSR and the CSR and the CSR and the CSR and the CSR and the CSR and the CSR and the CSR and the CSR and the CSR and the CSR and the CSR and the CSR and the CSR and the CSR and the CSR and the CSR and the CSR and the CSR and the CSR and the CSR and the CSR and the CSR and the CSR and the CSR and the CSR and the CSR and the CSR and the CSR and the CSR and the CSR and the CSR and the CSR and the CSR and the CSR and the CSR and the CS
Exactly!
The PCP was the only party that voted against the conclusions of this 9 that does the mechanism that does an effect of the investigation commission, because we did not accept that lies of responsibilities, including the successive governments of the troica and the division between the bad bank and the supposed good bank. Let’s hope that this time they do not make the same errors. Deputies, this new investigation commission must deduct on the subsequent period to which we analyzed the truth of the PC in the investigation commission to the BES. Starting by the measure of resolution that does not exceed a million euros and the government will not exceed a million euros and the government will not exceed a million euros and the government will not exceed a million euros and the government will not exceed a million euros and the government will not exceed a million euros and the government will not exceed a
Member of the PSD, Hugo Carneiro.
On the other hand, it is important to note that there is a number of different types of data, such as data, data, data, data, data, data, data, data, data, data, data, data, data, data, data, data, data, data, data, data, data, data and data.
But we will not align with certain proposals from other parties, such as the Socialist Party, which aim to repeat the investigation committee to the BES or seek to instrumentalize this new investigation committee for political purposes.
Do not be afraid!
We will not accept and we will also vote against the proposals — that there are them! — which aim to instrumentalize the investigation committee for purposes that have nothing to do with the New Bank and that are part of populist activism. The PSD has been one of the main parties that has not gotten to face the doubts that exist about the New Bank and we will not cease to do so as long as they persist.
You have the word to Mr. Deputy Cecilia Meireles, of the CDS-PP.
Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies.
I would like to pay attention to the time spent, Mr.
...and we will vote favorably all the proposals to focus the commission, but also it must not be for the CDS and for some obstacle from our side that all the parties will not investigate all that they think it should be investigated.
Deputy Fernando Anastácio, of the PS.
Deputies: The Socialist Party wants to know the whole history, the history of the resolution and how it was made and the sale and management of the New Bank. We don't want to know only part of the history. I perceive the discomfort of the PSD, which doesn't want to know a part of the history, because this story, in fact, is not very favorable to you. Aplauses of the PS. And I also perceive the difficulties of Mr. Deputy Cecilia Meireles, who managed to quote the current Government at the time of the sale of the New Bank but failed to quote the statements of Maria Luís Albuquerque and Passos Coelho, when the resolution, such a resolution in which the money we placed there would still give profit to the Portuguese. Remember, Mr. Deputy Cecilia? Remember me that it
No any inconvenience!
The Socialist Party assumes everything that it is responsible and it was good that the Social Democratic Party could also have this capacity. Therefore, let it be clear, let it be extremely clear that the Socialist Party is committed to knowing everything that has happened and is happening and the Portuguese also have that right and so demand it. In that sense, we will vote favorably all the proposals that are presented, with the exception of those that clearly come out of the scope of what is the dominant concern in the Portuguese society at this time, which is to know what has happened and is happening in the New Bank.
He has the word to Mr. Deputy Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Bloc.
Deputies: I want to take advantage of this second weight intervention to remind and congratulate the workers of the New Bank, but also to say that we will vote for all the proposals of the investigation committee. We want to investigate everything! We want to investigate the influence of dark private interests in political parties. Deputies André Ventura, beyond the past, we will take advantage of investigating and better knowing the business of the leaders of the Czech Republic and the source of the business of the Czech Republic and the country of the Czech Republic and the country of the Czech Republic and the country of the Czech Republic and the country of the Czech Republic and the country of the Czech Republic and the country of the Czech Republic.
We enter the fourth point of the work order, which deals with the discussion of the Proposal of Resolution no. 553/XIV/1.a (PAN) — Recommendation to the Portuguese Government to intervene with the Spanish Government in the direction of proceeding the closure of the Almaraz nuclear power plant.
Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies.
Deputy Duarte Marques ecoa for the Plenary, so I would like to draw attention to the following: the phenomenon of the masks is curious, because we all speak louder and that is felt in parliamentary works. I thanked that we all used a little lower tone of voice, while we spoke in the Plenary and with the mask. We enter, now, the phase of interventions. Deputy of the Liberal Initiative, João Cotrim de Figueiredo.
Deputies: When the nuclear mechanism is discussed, it is not easy to avoid its central exaggerations. Therefore, it is interesting, specifically, as to the central of Almaraz, look objectively to the facts. First fact: the incidents verified and referred by the PAN in its draft resolution were the same, incidents, because the automatic stop of the reactor, before the rise of power on June 23 last year, was classified with the zero level that the full government of the Nuclear Security Council has not the central life, whose independence and technical competence are recognised everywhere, not therefore even considered an incident. Second fact: the resistance test ordered by Greenpeace, an openly anti-nuclear organization, is of 2010, having, at this height, the Spanish government assumed the commitment on the rise
Deputy Nelson Peralta, of the Left Bloc, has the word, for an intervention.
There are several different sets of sets of sets of sets of sets of sets of sets of sets of sets of sets of sets of sets of sets of sets of sets of sets of sets of sets of sets of sets of sets of sets of sets of sets of sets of sets of sets of sets of sets of sets of sets of sets of sets of sets of sets of sets of sets of sets of sets of sets of sets of sets of sets of sets of sets of sets.
You have the word to Mr. Deputy Alma Rivera, of the PCP, for an intervention.
There is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is
For an intervention, he has the word to Mr. Deputy Mariana Silva, of the PEV.
Deputies: Before more, the Deputies in the first month of the month of the month of the month of the month of the month of the month of the month of the month of the month of the month of the month of the month of the month of the month of the month of the month of the month of the month of the month of the month of the month of the month of the month of the month of the month of the month of the month of the month of the month of the month of the month of the month of the month of the month of the month of the month of the month of the month of the month of the month of the month of the month of the month of the month of the month of the month of the month of the month of the month of the month of the month of the month of the month of the month of the month of the month of the month of the month of the month of the month of the month
I call your attention to the time.
In the event of an accident of greater gravity, Portugal may be affected, either by water pollution, since the central uses the waters of the Tejo river to cool its reactors, or by atmospheric pollution, by the great geographical proximity existing.
Member Telmo Correia, of the CDS-PP.
Deputies: I would also like to say to the PAN that may have missed a word that summarizes to the various interventions that I have heard here approved: the word I am approved: the word I am approved: the word I am approved: the word I am approved: the word I am approved: the word I am approved: the word I am approved: the word I am approved: the word I am approved: the word I am approved: the word I am approved: the word I am approved: the word I am approved: the word I am approved: the word I am approved.
I call your attention to the time.
In relation to the rest, we have no problem, we have no nuclear energy, and, from our point of view, we still don’t want to have, but we want to guarantee security in relation to the threat that, the longer it lasts, the greater it will be for Portugal.
Deputy André Ventura, from Chega.
Mr. President, it is obvious that this case of the Almaraz nuclear power plant shows, above all, the inefficiency of the Portuguese State. When the Chamber of Portalegre asked to close the central, what happened was that Spain renewed, still a month ago, the exploitation license, which shows well the inefficiency we have in this struggle. I didn’t want to lose the end of the minute that I have without answering the Block of Left, since I couldn’t do it before. Deputies, that I don’t know if I’m of the worst that the system has, but I know that, being the worst that the system has, I’m already in front of you in the surveys. I know another thing: I know that maybe it’s the worst that the system has, but never sells the social security houses for more than a million
I call your attention to the time.
When you do it, remember always that it is a party that, sooner or later, will cross your place in Portuguese politics and will do it with great clarity.
Deputy Fernando Paulo Ferreira of the PS.
Deputies: I thought we were here to discuss the problems of the Almaraz nuclear power plant and not to make electoral campaign. I have to say that it is known the energy model that the Socialist Party defends for the country and that deepens every time it is in the government. We want an energy model increasingly supported in renewable energies, so it is that the exploitation of the water resources, wind and sun has today increasingly more weight in the whole of the national energy cabin. This is the energy policy of the Socialist Party. Deputies Telmo Correia, I don't know if you have noticed that both the CDS and the PSD make a big voice regarding these matters when they are in the opposition but, when they are in the government and it's necessary to defend the interests in Europe or in other countries, they have no big voice and no big voice.
It is not true!
In this perspective, we know also that there was a Ministry of the Environment who intervened in so that any decision that Spain could come to take on the nuclear power of this real power of this national power was to be made only after a study of the national power of this national power of this national power of this national power of this national power of this national power of this national power of this national power of this national power of this national power of this national power of this national power of this national power of this national power of this national power of this national power of this national power of this country of this country of this country of this country of this country of this country of this country of this country of this country of this country of this country of this country of this country of this country of this country of this country of this country of this country of this country of this country of this country of this country of this country of this country of this country of this country
You have the word to Mr. Deputy Claudia André, of the PSD, for an intervention.
Deputies: In 2010, when the closure of Almaraz was planned, who was in the Government was the PS; in 2020, when the closure of Almaraz is planned, who is in the Government is the PS.
In the last Iberic convention, Almaraz was discussed?No, Almaraz was not discussed.Why?For the Portuguese government failed to put the topic on the agenda of the discussions of this convention.
Therefore, it is necessary to ensure that you have the right to obtain the right to obtain the right to obtain the right to obtain the right to obtain the right to obtain the right to obtain the right to obtain the right to obtain the right to obtain the right to obtain the right to obtain the right to obtain the right to obtain the right to obtain the right.
I call your attention to the time.
The Portuguese population, in particular the population of Castelo Blanco, Portalegre and Santarém, has the right to have this respect by Portugal.
President Nelson Peralta.
Deputy André Ventura has nothing to say about Almaraz, but we perceive his nervousness because he has a radioactive party.
very well!
Deputy, avoid coming here to leave your tears, because this does not delete the dangerous and doubtful links of the leaders and funders of the Chega. Deputy, in this Chamber, does not represent only the system, it also represents what the worst system has!
Mr President, I ask for the word.
Do you ask the word for what effect?
President Nelson Peralta.
We will leave your intervention to the end of this debate.
Mr. President, then, only the left block can defend honor?
The deputy, the left bloc did not defend any honour, made an intervention.
The Deputy.
It’s true, but I asked him if it didn’t matter if he stayed to the end of this debate.
There is no problem, Mr.
I think it’s a good thing to do, but I think it’s a good thing to do.
In the meantime, it’s a good idea for you to be able to find out what you’re going to do when you’re going to be able to do it.
Now, in relation to the Socialist Party, it is not the first time that we are concerned about the possibility of Spain to extend the operation of the Almaraz nuclear power plant beyond what is planned, especially after the favourable opinion already issued by the competent Spanish nuclear authority. We have said it more than once here and repeat it today: the Almaraz nuclear power plant, being an exclusive energy asset of Spain, is not an exclusive problem of Spain, since its proximity to Portugal, the age of its facilities and the events that come producing concern not only the Spanish people, but also the municipalities, governors and populations of our country.
To end this debate, you have the word to Mr. Bebiana Cunha.
Deputy of the Liberal Initiative, I leave you three facts: first, you don’t know, in Portugal, a radiological emergency plan for cross-border nuclear accidents; second, the radioactivity monitoring network in Portugal has faults; and third, you don’t know in the report of the real emergency exercise carried out by the APA (Portuguese Environment Agency) and by the Civil Protection, in 2016. Deputy of the CDS requires that the Debate of the Debate of the Debate of the Debate of the Debate of the Debate of the Debate of the Debate of the Debate of the Debate of the Debate of the Debate of the Debate of the Debate of the Debate of the Debate of the Debate of the Debate of the Debate of the Debate of the Debate of the Debate.
I call your attention to the time.
Obviously, the PAN will be on the side of the defense of populations and the protection of our natural heritage and ecosystems.
This is the case, and we have to go back to the incident, Deputy Deputy André Ventura.
I know that it will cost you to hear, but you’ll have to see it!Rise of the BE. Deputies, after the words of Deputy Nelson Blalta, I’ve been surprised, because we always have, in Parliament, this superior morality of “left caviar” that comes here and says that the others are all radioactive, that the others are very dangerous, that the others are the worst that the system has.Only that the BE is the worst that the other is the worst that the other is the worst that the other is the worst that the other is the worst that the other is the worst that the other is the worst that the other is the worst that the other is the worst that the other is the worst that the other is the worst that the other is the worst that the other is the worst.
Deputy Nelson Peralta has the word to give explanations.
He is used, in the congress of the party, to always take the same to the vote until he wins — did it three times!
But here it is not so!
The radioactive party! is not so in democracy. Deputy André Ventura defended the honor without saying anything about the following: Salvador Posser de Andrade, supporter of the Chega, administrator in the former real estate of the BES; Pedro Pessanha, strong man of the Chega in Lisbon, was director and business adviser of the BES Angola, today BES Economic; Francisco Sá Nogueira, former vice president of the former holding of the Spirit Santo Group; Francisco Cruz Martins, linked to the scandals of the Banif, the Valley of the Wolf, the Panama Papers and others.
Radioactive is!
On this, André Ventura doesn’t tell us anything, because he considers that this is not an attack to the honor of the Chega. But this is the essence of the Chega! The Chega is this, it’s the worst of the system! Deputy André Ventura comes from the PSD and misses the Government of the austerity of Passos Coelho. Protests of the CH. But you know one thing? The right doesn’t return to the power to talk about the economy, the right doesn’t return to the power to talk about the lives of the workers and who works in Portugal! Deputy has no solution for all this people who work, who makes an effort in their lives and, therefore, he thinks that the clothing of this new policy will take the right to power.
And you don’t!
Deputy believes this is not an attack on his honor.Well, this is the essence of the Chega!The Chega is closely linked to the country’s financial scandals and has nothing to say to the workers of this country.
The Deputy.
The left block gives this answer to those who work and who want a decent country to live.
Deputies, we now go to the fifth point of the agenda, of which consists the evaluation of the Projects of Resolution No. 279/XIV/1.a (PEV)  Realization of a rigorous study on the reality of child labour in Portugal, with a view to its total eradication and 289/XIV/1.a (PAN)  Recommend to the Government the elaboration of a national study on child labour.
Mr. President, if I allow, the agenda is of the PEV.
For example, if you are a child or a child or a child or a child or a child or a child or a child or a child or a child or a child or a child or a child or a child or a child or a child or a child or a child or a child or a child or a child or a child or a child or a child or a child or a child or a child or a child or a child or a child or a child or a child or a child or a child or a child or a child or a child or a child or a child or a child or a child or a child or a child or a child or a child or a child or a child or a child or a child or a child or a child or a child or a child or a child or a child or a child or a child or a child or a child or a child or a child or a child or a child or a child or a child or
I call your attention to the time, Mr. Deputy. Mr. Mariana Silva (PEV):  I am still ending, Mr. President. Thus, the Greens propose that a study is carried out that allows a structured and planned intervention to guarantee the rights of the children, imposing the state to comply with the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic.
There is no such thing as a child, a child, a child, a child, a child, a child, a child, a child, a child, a child, a child, a child, a child, a child, a child, a child, a child, a child, a child, a child, a child, a child, a child, a child, a child, a child, a child, a child, a child, a child, a child, a child, a child.
Deputy João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative. Deputies: There are realities so abject, so distant from respect for human rights that, in Portugal, we consider fundamental, that there is someone who prefers to close the eyes and imagine that they exist only in distant countries, with occupations different from ours, because, in Portugal of the 21st century, it will never be possible. One of these realities is that of child labour, which, unfortunately, still exists in our country. But we do not deny that Portugal has gone a long way in the protection of the rights of the children, of their healthy development and of the guarantee that all children can effectively live their childhood. But there is to recognize that this way is far from being concluded. Today, the children's funds, the different forms of the nation's occupation in the
We have the word, we have the name, we have the name, we have the name, we have the name, we have the name, we have the name, we have the name, we have the name, we have the name, we have the name, we have the name, we have the name, we have the name, we have the name, we have the name, we have the name, we have the name, we have the name, we have the name, we have the name.
For an intervention, he has the word to Mr. Deputy Diana Ferreira, of the PCP.
Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies.
Thank you very much Mr. Deputy.
... and not only at certain moments or linked to words at certain occasions.
I think it’s a good thing to do, but I think it’s a good thing to do.
Deputies: The topic here brought today by The Greens is, in fact, very relevant. As it has already been said, the second half of the last century was marked positively by the very great evolution in the consecration and recognition of the rights of the children. It was a process developed largely by the United Nations, which had consecration and welcome in the most developed countries. It is important to leave this view out of the truth, because, sometimes, it is that it is seen for the most developed countries as well as those that most explore and that less consecrate the rights, for example, of the workers. It is important to remember also that, for example, in relation to the rights of the children, it was precisely in the most advanced countries that were recognized these rights, that the worker worker worker worker worker worker worker worker worker worker wor
very well!
President José Soeiro, of the Left Bloc, for an intervention.
Deputies: all the children today have the right to childhood. all the children have the right to childhood. all the children have the right to childhood. all the children have the right to childhood. all the children have the right to childhood. all the children have the right to childhood. all the children have the right to childhood. all the children have the right to childhood. all the children have the right to childhood. all the children have the right to childhood. all the children have the right to childhood. all the children have the right to childhood. all the children have the right to childhood. all the children have the right to childhood. all the children have the right to childhood. all the children have the right to childhood. all the children have the right to childhood. all the children have the right to childhood. all the children have the right to childhood. all the children
You have the word to Mr. Deputy Marta Freitas, from the PS, for an intervention.
Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies.
Deputy André Ventura, from Chega, has the word, for an intervention.
Mr. President: I start by greeting these initiatives on child labour, but Mr. Deputy, it is necessary to say to the Socialist Party that this problem is not solved, because if it were not needed a study on the phenomenon and we’t need to do anything more. Even this year, the National Confederation of Action on Child Labour warned Portugal for the rise of new forms of child labour, especially in areas such as restoration, fashion, spectacles and many cultural activities. We were neither we nor any party of the opposition to say it, it was a confederation especially vocated for the effect, so appearing here the Socialist Party to say that the problem is no longer makes no big meaning. More with the rise of the pandemic, because of the COV-19, the pressure on the forms of child labour continued to be the rise of
For an intervention to close the debate, the Parliamentary Group of the PEV has the word to Mr. Deputy Mariana Silva.
Mr. President: Although the interventions show consensus, we can not stop strengthening the urgent need of the Government to take measures in the direction of quantificing and qualifying the problem of child labour, deepening the fight against this form of exploitation and improving the day-to-day of children and their families. Additionally, in today’s days, there are certain activities that, not being directly considered child labour, should deserve concern and attention, since they can intensify and aggravate in context of crisis. In fact, the identification of child labour situations in the present may raise some difficulties, while the National Confederation of Action on Child Labour has also come to warn for some situations that lack greater attention, such as, for example, in the areas of the risk and the fashion, and we can ensure that the number of children in the future is reduced to the
After the discussion of the draft resolution No. 279/XIV/1.a (PEV), we pass to the sixth point of the agenda, which consists of the assessment of the draft resolution No. 10/XIV/2.a (PAR) — The first amendment to the draft resolution No. 4-PL/2019, of 6 November (Elenco and composition of the permanent parliamentary committees), to which no time for discussion was assigned. Deputies, we will enter the regimental period of votes. First, we will proceed to the quorum verification, using the electronic system.
Deputies, the Proposal of Voting Discrimination is of the following content: “The judge Ruth Bader of the Ginsburg, a member of the Supreme Court of the United States, died, last September 18th, at the age of 87. He was born in the district of Brooklyn for justice and against discrimination and graduated in Law at the universities of Cornell, Harvard and Columbia, having been one of the few women to the question of the male to his course years. He was married to the colleague of the university Martin Ginsburg for the presidential health and was a mother between his baccalaureate and the bachelor’s. He was an acerma promoting the equality of rights between men and women and a advocate of human and social rights, struggling for freedom, for justice and against discrimination. Ginsburg worked as a
A judge and a brave, serious and innovative woman died. It will make us a lot miss, not only in the United States as well as in the world. Deputies, we will vote this Voting Project. Submitted to the vote, it was approved, with votes in favour of the PS, the PSD, the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the PEV, the IL and the unregistered Deputies Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstinence of the CH. Deputies, we will pass to the vote of the Voting Project No. 327/XIV/1.a (presented by the PAR) — De pesar for the death of Joaquim Veríssimo Serrão, which will be read by Mr. Lina Lopes.
Deputies, and all the signs of the signs of the signs of the signs of the signs of the signs of the signs of the signs of the signs of the signs of the signs of the signs of the signs of the signs of the signs of the signs of the signs of the signs of the signs of the signs of the signs of the signs of the signs of the signs of the signs of the signs of the signs of the signs of the signs of the signs of the signs of the signs of the signs of the signs of the signs of the signs of the signs.
Deputies, we will vote. Submitted to the vote, it was approved by unanimously. The table expresses its deep sadness for the death and disappearance of a great Portuguese — a great Portuguese, I repeat — and addresses the family, in the person of the son here present, Mr. Prof. Dr. Vítor Manuel Guimarães Veríssimo Serrão, the senses pesames. Deputies, we will do a minute of silence.
It is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of
Mr President, I ask for the word.
Please please Mr. Deputy.
Mr. President, I am to announce that I will submit a vote statement on the voting of this last initiative.
In this case, we will start by voting the point 1. Submitted to the vote, was rejected, with votes against the PS, the PCP, the PEV and the IL, votes for the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH and the Deputy not registered Cristina Rodrigues and abstentions from the BE, the Deputy not registered Joacine Katar Moreira and the Deputies of the PS Passos, Fernando Anastácio, Jamila, Joaquina Maria, Joaquina Maria, Joaquina Maria, Joaquina Maria, Joaquina Maria, Joaquina Maria, Joaquina Maria and Joaquina Maria.
Mr President, I ask for the word.
Please please Mr. Deputy.
Mr. President, I am to announce that I will submit a vote statement regarding the vote on this point.
I am the one who has the right to do so; I am the one who has the right to do so; I am the one who has the right to do so; I am the one who has the right to do so; I am the one who has the right to do so; I am the one who has the right to do so; I am the one who has the right to do so; I am the one who has the right to do so; I am the one who has the right to do so.
Mr President, I ask for the word.
The Deputy.
Deputies Jamila Madeira, José Apolinário, Joaquina Matos, Ana Passos, Fernando Anastácio and I myself will submit a vote statement.
We have now the votes of the E.P.P.P.R.P.R.R.R.R.R.R.R.R.R.R.R.R.R.R.R.R.R.R.R.R.R.R.R.R.R.R.R.R.R.R.R.R.R.R.R.R.R.R.R.R.R.R.R.R.R.R.R.R.R.R.R.R.R.R.R.R.R.R.R.R.R.R.R.R.R.R.R.R.R.R.R.R.R.R.R.R.R.R.R.R.R.R.R.R.R.R.R.R.R.
Please apologize, can you allow me to use the word?
Please please Mr. Deputy.
Mr. President, it is only to announce that, in relation to the vote we have just made, we will submit a written voting statement.
We are now voting for a vote, we are voting for a vote, we are voting for a vote, we are voting for a vote, we are voting for a vote, we are voting for a vote, we are voting for a vote, we are voting for a vote, we are voting for a vote, we are voting for a vote, we are voting for a vote, we are voting for a vote, we are voting for a vote, we are voting for a vote, we are voting for a vote, we are voting for a vote, we are voting for a vote, we are voting for a vote, we are voting for a vote, we are voting for a vote, we are voting for a vote.
Mr. President, if you allow me...
The Deputy.
Mr. President, I just want to leave two notes. Deputies that the PSD will submit a vote statement on the votes we just made. Secondly, Mr. President, I think that what is reasonable, facing the result of these votes, is a single investigation committee, of course, with an object that covers the whole of the investigation committee initiatives that have been approved.
In the background, I said the same that I, i.e. declined to the committee and, in the committee, a single object is defined.
Mr. President, as regards the content, I think we agree that stabilization is in the sense that the object is the maximum object. The down to the committee is that it is the point that may not be consensual, in the extent that, in good rigor, there is no committee to down, since it is about the constitution of an eventual commission of investigation. Therefore, if the Conference of Leaders could take the task of making the formatting of a single text, I think it would be a transversal and consensual solution that would go to the meeting of Mr. President's suggestion, without down to the committee, but, in the background, with the substantive effect exactly identical.
It is a good idea for you to be able to do this, but it is a good idea for you to do this.
Deputy Pedro Delgado Alves, I would like to say the following: in fact, there is no committee specializing in investigative committees and therefore, in my opinion, it will have to be the Conference of Leaders. It is obvious that the vote we made today leads to the constitution of a committee and what was approved and rejected only determines the scope and object of that committee. Therefore, it is necessary to summarize the object of the proposals that were approved and that object, from our point of view, will define an investigative committee on this matter.
Deputies, when I spoke about downloading the commission was due to the object and nature of the matter. Deputy Pedro Filipe Soares.
Mr. President, I want to leave two notes, the first of which to say that we agree with the idea that the Conference of Leaders can now take into account this issue. The second note is to be already clarified that the decision taken by the Plenary may not then be disturbed by any committee nor even by the Conference of Leaders. The material content of the investigation committee is defined by the votes we just made.
This will be a discussion held at the Conference of Leaders, Deputy Duarte Pacheco.
Mr. President, what is natural, even with other investigation committees, is that there is a project that defines the composition, etc., which remains in charge of the services and is then signed by Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic. Deputy Pedro Filipe Soares, that is, we will not make the political assessment of excluding point A or point B, because they were all approved — with the composition they usually register, and this is taken to the Conference of Leaders to be, merely, sanctioned and Mr. President of the Assembly give possession to the commission as soon as it is determined.
Members who interviewed here are part of the Conference of Leaders and therefore this discussion will be held at the Conference of Leaders and not here, in the Plenary.
Mr President, I ask for the word.
The Deputy.
Mr. President, it was to remind that the Parliamentary Representatives of a Party do not include the Conference of Leaders when it is not about discussing the agenda and this discussion could take place at one of those meetings in which we have no seat. I would like to emphasize that it is mandatory that we have the opportunity to declare to confirm that the object we propose in our proposal is reflected in the parliamentary commission of investigation, before it is assumed by Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic and shared by the other political forces.
We will then go down to the Conference of Leaders — go down, yes, because we are in the Plenary.
Mr President, I ask for the word.
The Deputy.
I think it’s a good thing to do, but I think it’s a good thing to do, I think it’s a good thing to do, I think it’s a good thing to do.
In this case, it is not the case, but it is not the case, it is not the case, it is not the case, it is not the case, it is not the case, it is not the case, it is not the case, it is not the case, it is not the case, it is not the case, it is not the case, it is not the case, it is not the case, it is not the case, it is not the case, it is not the case, it is not the case, it is not the case, it is not the case, it is not the case, it is not the case, it is not the case.
Mr President, I ask for the word.
Deputy Pedro Filipe Soares, do you ask the word for what effect?
Mr. President, I wanted to ask, on this replacement text that has been voted, the dispense of the final draft and the complaint period, because such has to be voted in the Plenary to be accepted, so that it can enter into force before the end of the month, which is what is intended to be changed in concrete and, for that, has to proceed in this way.
Let us then vote an oral request, submitted by the BE, requesting the dispense of final writing and the deadline for submission of claims against inexactitudes, regarding the replacement text submitted by the Commission of Economy, Innovation, Public Works and Housing, relating to the Bill No. 483/XIV/1.a (BE) and 488/XIV/1.a (PCP). Submitted to the vote, it was approved by unanimously. Let us now vote in general, in specialty and in global final vote, the Bill No. 45/XIV/1.a (GOV) — Authorizes the Government to legislate in the field of work on board of the fishing vessels and maritime activity on board of transboards, by the Directives of the BE (CD) No. 483/XIV/1.a (BE)
Mr President, I ask for the word.
Do you ask the word for what effect?
Mr. President, it was to request, in relation to the last vote, the dispense of the deadline for complaints and the final drawing, in the regimental terms.
We will then vote an oral request, submitted by the PS, requesting the dispense of final writing and the deadline for the submission of claims against inexactitudes, relating to the Law No. 45/XIV/1.a (GOV).
Mr President, I ask for the word.
Do you ask the word for what effect?
Mr. President, it is to announce that we will submit a vote declaration regarding this last vote.
The Paragraph 34 to 48 of the Journal of the Assembly of the Republic, I Series, concerning the plenary meetings of the first legislative session of the XIV Legislature held on 27 and 28 February, 4, 5, 6, 11, 12, 13, 18 and 24 March and 2, 8, 16, 22 and 25 April 2020.
Deputies, inform the Chamber that gave entry to the Table, and was admitted by Mr. President, the Bill No. 525/XIV/2.a (PCP) — Combat the Occupational Precarity and Strengthens the Rights of the Workers (the sixth amendment to Law No. 7/2009, of 12 February, which approves the Code of Labor).
In the second paragraph, will be discussed the petition No. 57/XIV/1.a (Joana Pavil Gentil Soares and others) — Support for all children with school age up to 12 years of the Pavilion area of the Hospital of the Government of the Government of the Government of the Government of the Government of the Government of the Government of the Government of the Government of the Government of the Government of the Government of the Government of the Government of the Government of the Government of the Government of the Government of the Government of the Government of the Government of the Government of the Government of the Government of the Government of the Government of the Government of the Government of the Government of the Government of the Government of the Government of the Government of the Government.
The first point of our agenda consists, as you know, of political statements, but before that, I give the word to Mrs. Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha to proceed to the reading of the file.
I am a member of the European Parliament and I am a member of the European Parliament and I am a member of the European Parliament and I am a member of the European Parliament and I am a member of the European Parliament and I am a member of the European Parliament and I am a member of the European Parliament and I am a member of the European Parliament and I am a member of the European Parliament and I am a member of the European Parliament and I am a member of the European Parliament.
We will enter the agenda, the first point of which consists of political statements. deputy Duarte Pacheco.
Deputies: All six years after the audit and with 7 billion euros indeed accounted for the audit of this BES (Banco Espírito Santo) /Novo Banco, this financial institution continues to fall on the table of the Portuguese, until because we are all, we were all who paid those 7 billion. It is unanimous that this problem has the genesis in a real case of police, that it was followed by a resolution, that it was not perfect, and that it was operated by the Government, that it is hard for a small sale, and that it is hard for the government, that it is hard for the government, that it is hard for the government, that it is hard for the government, that it is hard for the government, that it is hard for the government, that it is hard for the government, that it is hard for the government, that it is hard for the government, that it is
very well!
And the first of these institutions, the one that jumps to the eyes of any citizen, among others that we could also refer, is the Court of Auditors, either by the exposed, or even by the quality of their reports and by the critical and independent analysis that always does, hurting who hurt.
very well!
This is not all the way that the Government has continued. But this is the way that today we can, still, trace. Deputies, the time urges and, in seven or eight months, the New Bank may want to receive the 1000 million euros that still remain in this public guarantee. A audit with this extent and with these consequences is difficult and delayed, so there is no time to make a commitment. The Assembly of the Republic may expect that the Deputies on the same conclusion that the Republic may ask for, then, to determine to a public instance if it is not a public entity if it is not a public entity if it is not a public entity if it is not a public entity if it is not a public entity if it is not a public entity if it is not a public entity if it is not a public entity if it is not a
The House of Representatives is registering the registration of six Members to submit requests for clarification.
I will answer first to three and then to the remaining three.
President José Luís Ferreira of the Greens.
Deputy Duarte Pacheco, I start by congratulating you for the subject that brings your discussion, because the New Bank, not being a problem just now, continues to be a current issue and unfortunately, for the worst reasons. In fact, we are talking about a problem that has been drawn up for six years ago, the same is to say that we are talking about a problem that has been born with the Government of the PSD/CDS-PP. Moreover, the Government of the PSD/CDS-PP does not just increase the government of the PSD/CDS-PP. The Government of the PSD/CDS-PP does not just increase the government of the PSD/CDS-PP. The Government of the PSD/CDS-PP does not just increase the government of the PSD/CDS-PP. The Government of the PSD/CDS-PP does not just increase the government of
We have the word now, to ask for clarification, Mr. Inês Sousa Real, of the PAN.
Deputy Duarte a pre-pacheco, in the same way, it is important for us that there is an urgent funding of the sales agreements in the same way, it is important for us that there is an urgent funding of the sales agreements in the same way, it is important for us that there is an urgent funding of the sales agreements in the same way, it is important for us that there is an urgent funding of the sales agreements in the same way, it is important for us that there is an urgent funding of the sales agreements in the same way, it is important for us that there is an urgent funding of the sales agreements in the same way.
You have to conclude, Mr.
I am actually concluding, Mr. President. When is it that the PSD will pass from words to action and to vote?
Deputy Duarte Alves of the Parliamentary Group of the PCP.
Deputy Duarte Pacheco thinks the minister about the cost closely that the government is paying on this measure but not the two weeks, we have discussed the draft resolution of the new government relating to the public control of the new bank and of the last week, the resolution of the millions we have approved the constitution of a commission of investigation, the PSD brings again the debate in the situation of the new bank, which is of great relevance. Continues to be manifested the consequences of what has happened in the new bank, a decoction of the value of the national bank, a authentic portrait of the government is not the position of a monopolist group, but the state is not the point of the bank, the government is not the point of the bank, the government is not the point of the bank, the government is not the point of the bank, the government is
The Deputy.
Mr. President, end, asking if the PSD is in agreement with the PCP regarding the fact that the Bank of Portugal should have its own audits, without being dependent on the large multinationals and consultancies.
Deputy Duarte Pacheco.
Deputies, your interventions before the last time I said little said, because, unfortunately, they are in the worst of what people expect from Parliament, i.e. that we spend our lives wanting to throw stones with the Government of the PSD instead of going to the depth of the issues and seeking solutions. Aplause of the PSD. If I wanted to go through this line of power, Mr. Deputies Inês the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of
If you have nothing to object, tell it clearly so that this sign reaches the right person and so that the Court of Auditors can immediately begin their activity and begin auditing the New Bank accounts.
In this case, it is necessary to ensure that you have the right to obtain the right to obtain the right to obtain the right to obtain the right to obtain the right to obtain the right to obtain the right to obtain the right.
Deputy Duarte Pacheco, it’s not a resolution that wasn’t perfect. Let’s be objective and objective: the resolution was a disaster, because the losses were not assumed, because it was created the fiction of a clean bank assembly and because then the Minister of Finance said — it’s necessary to assume it — that the State would not pay any losses of the New Bank assembly, and that was objectively false. However, it’s true that the sale was not a ruined and that the same false promise was made to the Portuguese when this ruined sale. I’m sorry that the PSD had allowed the sale. It could have prevented this sale by voting in the Assembly of the Republic. I’m sorry that the PSD had replaced the proposal that the new funds were allowed to be approved by the
very well!
If the Court of Auditors needs signals from the Assembly of the Republic to immediately start an audit that protects the public interest in the management that the Lone Star does of the New Bank, then you can count on all the support of the Left Block. We have already said it and continue to say it: we want a public and independent audit that defends the public interest and taxpayers against the abuses of the Lone Star in the management of the New Bank.
Deputy Miguel Costa Matos, of the Parliamentary Group of the PS.
Deputies, in fact, the Portuguese even want to know why they continue to pay the New Bank. It’s a loan to the Resolution Fund, it’s sure we’ll reveal it. But why we put the money there? On that, the PSD, in this political statement, made an exercise of agnotology, i.e., of production of ignorance and confusion so that no one realizes anything. They count, for that, with the creation of three myths. The first is that this is all the fault of the sale that the gentlemen did not, in 2015, when there were three good proposals to do it.
In 2017, the only alternative to the sale was the liquidation of that same bank, with a cost estimated by the European Commission of 14 billion euros, that is, three times more than the money that could come to place there. The sale was actually made at the best offer. Who says it are not we, but the European Commission. The second myth is that the fault of all this comes with the sale and with the contingent capital mechanism, which pays the losses.
Deputy, I apologize for this small interruption. Deputies who are standing, practically from the beginning of the session, to leave the room or then to sit.
Thank you, Mr. President. The fault, in fact, is not of the contingent capital mechanism, but is of the fact that only have discovered these bad assets at that time, turning a solid portfolio into a bad, illegal and old portfolio, as says Antonio Ramalho. All this since the New Bank has ceased to be audited by the signature where the two main architects of the resolution of 2014, one of them the former Chairman of the Cabinet of Victor Gaspar. We are paying for the lack of good management and rigor in the New Bank procedures, we are paying the systematically wrong assessments of the new Bank's properties and we are paying the consequence of the hurry of losing the bad assets, more rapidly, more logically, more parliamentary that the third is expected to be audited by the signature where the two
It is time for Mr. Deputy Cecilia Meireles, of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, to ask for clarifications.
In this exercise I would like to start remembering that I have heard here that the problems were born with this or that government — the problem, in this matter, was not born with a government; the problems were born in a bank that was referred to as the Bank of the Holy Spirit. I think it would be good that we were all aware of the parts of the fact that the sale was not the fact that the sale was not the fact that the sale was not the fact that the sale was not the fact that the sale was not the fact that the sale was not the fact that the sale was not the fact that the sale was not the fact that the sale was not the fact that the sale was not the fact that the sale was not the fact that the sale was not the fact that the sale was not the fact that the sale was not the fact that the sale was not the fact that the sale was not the fact that the sale was not the fact
Deputy Duarte Pacheco.
It is the name of the Deputies, the name of the Deputies, the name of the Deputies, the name of the Deputies, the name of the Deputies, the name of the Deputies, the name of the Deputies, the name of the Deputies, the name of the Deputies, the name of the Deputies, the name of the Deputies, the name of the Deputies, the name of the Deputies, the name of the Deputies, the name of the Deputies, the name of the Deputies, the name of the Deputies, the name of the Deputies, the name of the Deputies, the name of the Deputies, the name of the Deputies, the name of the Deputies, the name of the Deputies, the name of the Deputies, the name of the
The Deputy.
I will conclude, Mr. President. Let us all give a positive sign so that the Court of Auditors can do this audit as quickly as possible and so that it can do it with the competence and independence that you are recognized, and in time, before we make the assessment of the money that is missing.
The President of the Republic of Lithuania and the President of the Republic of Lithuania asked the President of the Republic of Lithuania.
For the honour, Mr. President.
What is the question, Mr. Deputy?
Deputy Duarte Pacheco has understood that the PAN has enabled the capital injection in the New Bank and is missing the truth when stating that, since the PAN has voted against that capital injection...
Sorry, Mr. Deputy, I haven’t given you the word yet. I was just asking what had motivated your word request to defend honor. Now yes, you have the word, Mr. Deputy.
On the other hand, it is important to note that, in the context of the implementation of this Regulation, the European Parliament and the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the Council of the European Par
Duarte Pacheco has the word to answer.
Deputies, Mr. Deputies Inês de Sousa Real, far from me want to offend the honor of V. Ex.a. What I said was something completely different from what Mr. Deputies said, and Mr. Deputies know perfectly. It is that Mr. Deputies enabled the Budget and this had planned the transfer of money to the New Bank.
If this was a matter so fulcral for you, if it was a matter of life or death, I had not voted for the Budget, I had voted against.
President José Maria Cardoso, of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Bloc.
It is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of
The Deputy.
I will conclude, Mr. President. The voters agree to the dictates of the elected to the elected, in front of an effective nomination that passes from administrative to party. The elected who are of the pleasure of the heads, the municipal subordinates are ordered to vote. This vote in the urn ends with a referendum for the ratification of the personal choices of the “donos” of the municipal power. If this is the democracy invoked as a great sign of the singularity of the process, we are discussed.
There are a number of different types of cookies that can be used for the purposes of this website.
I will answer the three blocks, Mr. President.
Deputy José Cancela Moura of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
Deputies, only stranger this political statement who didn’t know that the Block is a centralist party, vocated for the protest. Only stranger this narrative who didn’t know that the Block is a party without municipal implantation, which devaluates the policy of proximity. Only stranger this position who didn’t know that the Block only criticises and never had the courage to assume the responsibility to decide. We accept that the diploma can even raise several interpretations, according to the convictions of each, but, in essence, this law has an incontestable goal, which is the process of democratization of the functioning of the CCDR.
very well!
In fact, the law introduces more democracy, immediately by the election of one among several candidates and gives, also, greater proximity, because the appointment by the Government is replaced by the vote of the municipalities of each region-plan. What is that the country has to lose with the approval of this diploma? And the Bloc of Left what has to lose with it?
A good question!
We are not deceived by this false rhetoric. The fact that two parties establish an agreement to submit a candidacy does not inviable that the others do the same or that any citizen proposes to the place! See the case of the CCDR of Alentejo, which is an example of this, whose election will be disputed by two candidates. Make a favour to this Chamber: read the law without the ideological filter that tosses your reasoning and you will see that your protest works in a huge mistake. Why does the Block, instead of protesting, not go to votes?
Go to vote!
The answer, as is usual, will be convenient, but I anticipate it.
The Deputy.
I’m going to conclude, Mr. President. Because the Block represents an Orthodox left, crossed by a progressive, that has a bad relationship with democracy itself.
You have the word, for a request for clarification, Mr. Deputy Cecilia Meireles, of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group.
Deputy José Maria Cardoso that brings here a matter that is central and serious. In fact, what is happening with the change of the legislation of the CCDR is serious, it is very serious even. It is worth remembering that the decentralization that the Government promised, and that, yes, it must be done, because it is so that there is greater approximation to the populations and that better public services are made, it is with the passage of competences to the municipalities that the government was only the case of the government of the government of the government of the government of the government of the government of the government of the government of the government of the government of the government of the government of the government of the government of the government of the government of the government of the government of the government of the government of the government of the government of the government of the government of the government of the government of the government of
Member of the Liberal Initiative, João Cotrim de Figueiredo.
Deputy José Maria Cardoso, congratulate you for having brought this topic to debate. Although it has already been discussed here, in this Hemiciclo, the proposal of the Government law, although it has already been discussed here, in this Hemiciclo, the parliamentary appreciation of the diploma that gave it origin, however, the topic remains alive and deserves to be discussed. A year before the municipal elections, a few months before the arrival of the “base” financial debate, what is proposed to us? It is proposed to us that an organ, whose great competencies are at the level of planning, regional development and the administration of the funds, pass to be named by a “cozinhado” between the PS and the PSD.
President José María Cardoso of the Left Bloc.
It is not a matter of fact that it is a matter of fact that it is a matter of fact that it is a matter of fact that it is a matter of fact that it is a matter of fact that it is a matter of fact that it is a matter of fact that it is a matter of fact that it is a matter of fact that it is a matter of fact that it is a matter of fact that it is a matter of fact that it is a matter of fact that it is a matter of fact that it is a matter of fact that it is a matter of fact that it is a matter of fact that it is a matter of fact that it is a matter of fact that it is a matter of fact.
Deputy, he has four further requests for clarification, from Deputies of the PAN, the PEV, the PCP and the PS Deputy Nelson Basílio Silva.
Mr. Co. President, very pleased at the end of the month, we were against the strange way that the PS and the PSD had approved this strange way that the PS and the PSD had approved this strange way that the PS and the PSD had approved this strange way that the PS and the PSD had approved this strange way that the PS and the PSD had approved this strange way that the PS and the PSD had approved this strange way that the PS and the PSD had approved this strange way that the PS and the PSD had approved this strange way that the PS and the PSD had approved this strange way that the PS and the PSD had approved this strange way that the PS and the PSD had approved this strange way that the PS and the PSD had approved this strange way.
It is time for Mr. Deputy Paula Santos, of the Parliamentary Group of the PCP, to ask for clarifications.
Deputy José Maria Cardoso, conversion of the P.S. administration to bring this regional topic of the CCDR to the debate. We believe that the question of background relating to this topic is, in fact, that it has not only been concretized by lack of political will and that it has not only been achieved by the Constitution, but also that it has been advanced in a decisive way for the creation of the administrative regions and for the regionalization of our country. This is the question of background, this is the question of structure, this is the question that the P.S. government can not aspire to administer the question of the P.S. government and this is the question that the P.S. government can not change the question of the P.S. government and this is the question of the P.S. government and this is the question of the P.S. government and this
I ask you to conclude, Mr.
I will already finish, Mr. President. Deputy, if not consider important, in this process of the creation of the administrative regions, give voice to the populations through an effective democratic process, promoting their participation and contributing to the development of the territories.
Deputy José Luís Ferreira, of the PEV.
Deputy José Maria Cardoso administered, in fact, look for this regional process as a step in the direction of decentralizing or in the direction of giving body to the process of regionalization, it is not of who knows what he speaks, because both the PS and the PSD know very well that this process has nothing to do with decentralization or with regionalization. It is, of who, intentionally or not the process is trying to illuse the people with the deliberate confusion of the process, it is not the process of the new process, it is the process of the new process, it is the process of the new process, it is the process of the new process, it is the process of the new process, it is the process of the new process, it is the process of the new process, it is the process of the new process, it is the process of the new process, it is
very well!
We have the word, to ask for clarifications, Mr. Deputy Maria da Luz Rosinha, of the PS.
Deputies. one of the commitments of the XXII Government Agreement for 2019-2021 was to deepen the decentralization with a view to regionalization, to deepen the decentralization with more democracy and better public service, to strengthen the local power, that all political forces, from right to left, aplaude and recognize to be the balout of territorial development, and to democratize the territorial governance giving steps in the direction of the Portuguese system that it becomes less centralistic. some agree with it, some do not. Deputies José Maria Cardoso, which fulfilment since now, has just confirmed — «feroz» was the term that it used.
I ask you to conclude, Mr.
I will already conclude, Mr. President. Deputy José Maria Cardoso, that the Bloc de Esquerda won’t put into question the capacity of the municipalities, although it doesn’t have many, but I ask if you recognize, or not, that this election is a step towards so hopeful regionalization.
President José María Cardoso of the Left Bloc.
Deputies and Deputies who put this set of questions. Deputies of the PAN Nelson Silva. I have to say that I didn’t understand very well the confusion he did in relation to what, by his words, would have been said by the Bloc of Left. From the beginning that we say the same, i.e. we consider this election is a fierce way of capturing what is necessary and urgent to do and that, since 1976, is consecrated in the law, which is the regionalization. As such, it’s not the question of finding that the election must be direct, universal or indirect that will solve the situation — it may be more democratic or less democratic, it may involve more people, more population, but this does not make it recognized by anything in terms of democratizing the CCDR.
very well!
The CCDRs are a peripheral body of the state, are under the height of the state, and there is nothing that changes its legal nature, there is nothing that changes neither its composition nor its form of action. Very honestly, if you want to tell you, we are here to talk whether it will democratize or not even worsen the situation. So far there was an administrative appointment — we knew it was so — related to the government, and there is a party appointment, of party game, which makes the situation much more dangerous. Therefore, this condition does not improve absolutely anything and is this our position from the beginning. We — and also responding to Mr. Paula Santos — we are the favor of regionalization, that is what we defend...
very well!
... and, as such, our path is in the direction of creating conditions for it to be a reality. In addition, it was why we ask, even, the cessation of validity of this document, when here it was discussed as a decree-law. It was in that sense that we invoked this situation as quickly as possible. It is much, permanently, in asymmetries, in inequalities, in territorial cohesion, when we have a country as completely asymmetrical, a country that is increasingly asymmetrical and more imbalanced. Not seeing there the healing of all the evils, but realizing that it is one of the possibilities to create a greater equality of opportunities and a greater balance, the regionalization is, without a doubt, a way to start as quickly as possible. The PS and the well-knowing PSD is the
I ask you to conclude.
I tell you more: delaying the regionalization is already bad, but it’s much worse what’s in question, because we’re creating conditions to turn community funds to the interest of the goals of the PS and the PSD and to the interest of the central block and the municipalities that defend it.
The Deputy.
In response to Mr. Deputy Maria da Luz Rosinha, I wanted to say that this is not even a step towards regionalization, but exactly the opposite: it is to encapote and to hide the regionalization.
by Antonio Filipe.
For the purposes of this Agreement, the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament
Exactly!
The story has given eloquent examples that it is, often, behind the anti-corruption discourse that hid the greatest corrupts and those who, in the name of the fight against corruption, no longer want but to liquidate the structuring principles of the State of democratic law. Applause of the PCP. We insist, therefore: what the country needs is not more plans and strategies on paper, but more means for the Public Prosecutor, for the Judicial Police and for general inspections; more experts in the fields of finance, accounting and computer science; of courts equipped enough to confer more speed to the processes, fighting just feelings of inefficiency of justice due to its excessive mortality.
I think it’s a good thing to do, but I think it’s a good thing to do.
Two to two, Mr.
President José Manuel Pureza of the Left Bloc.
Deputy António Filipe, of course, is a problem of background, in the individual justice policy, which is getting worse over time. And in this background problem is that, in the system itself, the breach of the law is now a reality. Therefore, it is just in the system where the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law.
The Deputy.
Deputy António Filipe if you don’t think that the breach of the law is an essential aspect and if there are eventually aspects to improve in the system itself of the relationship of justice with the social tissue, so that there is no protection from aspects that are harmful and so that there is a greater opening and transparency of the functioning of justice itself.
Deputy André Ventura, from Chega.
It is curious to hear this from the Communist Party, to hear that there are several accused and condemned in public positions, when, whenever I ask to comment, says that these are not mixed in the name of the communist and that it does not confuse the accused with the condemned or condemned in the practice of the political positions that it is better to say that it is the business of the political positions that it is better to say that it is better to say that it is better to say that it is better to say that it is better to say that it is better to say that it is better to say that it is better to say that it is better to say that it is better to say that it is better to say that it is better to say that it is better to say that it is better to say that it is better to say that it is better to say that it is better to
by Antonio Filipe.
Deputy José Manuel Pureza has spoken for the P.S. port to the P.S. port to the P.S. port to the P.S. port to the P.S. port to the P.S. port to the P.S. port to the P.S. port to the P.S. port to the P.S. port to the P.S. port to the P.S. port to the P.S. port to the P.S. port to the P.S. port to the P.S. port to the P.S. port to the P.S. port to the P.S. port to the P.S. port to the P.S. port to the P.S. port to the P.S. port to the P.S. port to the P.S. port to the P.S. port to the P.S.
We will continue with the requests for clarification. deputy Carlos Peixoto, of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
Deputy said of the tribune, because no one has a doubt that the concern of the PCP — and, I say, of all parliamentary groups, of all parties, I think of all Deputies — is a genuine and authentic concern regarding the fight against corruption and the best way to find solutions to give back to entropy and the blockages of justice. Deputy, I’m going to tell you of this because they’ve already used that twice the expression of the law, but it can’t happen to the law, it can’t happen to the law, it can’t happen to the law, it can’t happen to the law, it can’t happen to the law, it can’t happen to the law, it can’t happen to the law, it can’t happen to the law.
That’s what he said!
It is for these means that you have to struggle for the next State Budget. It is there, in our view, that you have to put all the efforts. I don't know if you agree or not with me. Protests of the MP Bruno Dias. Deputy António Filipe thinks that enough the abstract strategy of fighting corruption recently disclosed by the Government, which passes, in fact, next to the eye of the hurricane, since it doesn't say anything concrete regarding the links between the Government and football and between the European funds and public works, and that's worrying. But here we are all, vigilants, to build a better Portugal.
In addition, it is important to ensure that you have the right to use this product in order to ensure that you have the right to use this product in order to ensure that you have the right to use this product.
Deputy Antonio Filipe on the topic of his political statement. We share the idea that justice is a fundamental pillar of the rule of law and the critical role that the good or bad functioning of the rule of law has in the people’s trust in the institutions. Therefore, there we could not be more agreeing with the relevance of the topic that brought the debate, one day, however, in which the European Commission revealed the report on the rule of law. At the same time it points to the aspects in which it is necessary to continue to improve the action of the Government, which coincide with the priorities that are in the Government Program, in the global guidelines of the Government and in the State Budgets, this report also highlights much of the important work that Portugal has developed in the last years, namely in the matters of corruption, with the approval of the legislation.
very well!
The government did not present it.
Deputy! the rest comes after! Another of the examples that is given and with enormous relevance for the proper functioning of justice is the investment that has been made in information and communication technologies, without which it is not possible to work in the efficiency and speed of justice. Sorry me the pleonasm, but justice is only fair if it is timely and, without these investments, it is not possible. If I had time, I could list here all the work that was done at the level of professional statutes. We know, and you also know, that the Government is working committedly on the status of judicial officials and that very soon we will have a new patamar in the strengthening of human resources, which, there, has already a sense.
Oh...
Deputy António Filipe mentioned: improving the response that the prison service gives to those who meet detention penalties and improving the lawyer fees are two of the concerns that, of course, we share with you.
Member Telmo Correia, of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group.
Deputy Antonio Filipe, first of all, of course, I want to congratulate you on the topic that brought to the discussion, a topic that is, in fact, important and that is to be treated seriously, out of more or less populist analyses.
Go from there...
It’s a little truth and it’s in our justice for many years. Only the truth is that I know it’s going too many years of this Government of the Socialist Party and things are not happening. It’s not happening that it’s better that it’s not a Government, but it’s not a hard project, it’s not a hard project, it’s not a hard project, it’s not a hard project, it’s not a hard project, it’s not a hard project, it’s a hard project, it’s a hard project, it’s a hard project, it’s a hard project, it’s a hard project, it’s a hard project, it’s a hard project, it’s a hard project, it’s a hard project, it’s a hard project, it’s a hard project, it’s a hard project,
I ask you to be very synthetic on the last question.
I am just ending, Mr. President. The more difficult question is: will the PCP beat for the investments that are missing or not? The last question, and the most difficult of all: will the PCP take or not, in the vote of the State Budget,...
The Deputy.
Does the Government not present the reforms and investments that are needed?
by Antonio Filipe.
Deputy Carlos Peixoto regretted that he had referred me several times to the PSD/CDS Governments, but I only said two things: one was that they had closed courts, which then were reopened, and another was that they had left for approving the statutes of the judicial magistrates and the Prosecutor's Office, which only then were unlocked. Deputy, we take all responsibilities of what we defend in this Assembly.
After hearing it...
Deputy Telmo Correia, who was the one to know if we are fighting for these investments that we here defend. Deputy, who I have here the proposal that the PCP presented in the discussion, in the specialty, of the State Budget for 2020 — and I was seeking, in fact, the latest — for the approval of a multi-year investment plan in criminal investigation. Well, this proposal had the votes against the Socialist Party, which we regret, but could have been approved, had not been the abstentions of the PSD, the CDS and the Chega.
Is it serious?
Now, imagine there the gentlemen that, with your voting the time that the Court of Justice that the Good Court of Justice that the Good Court of Justice that the Good Court of Justice that the Good Court of Justice that the Good Court of Justice that the Good Court of Justice that the Good Court of Justice that the Good Court of Justice that the Good Court of Justice that the Good Court of Justice that the Good Court of Justice that the Good Court of Justice that the Good Court of Justice that the Good Court of Justice that the Good Court of Justice that the Good Court of Justice that the Good Court of Justice that the Good Court of Justice that the Good Court of Justice that the Good Court of Justice that the Good Court of Justice that the Good Court of Justice that the Good Court of Justice that the Good Court of Justice that the Good
The Deputy.
I will conclude, Mr. President. As I was saying, the steps that were taken, with the approval of the 2010 resolution I quoted here, and that, if I am not wrong, was approved by unanimously, were important, are giving results and could give more, the problem now is of investment, is of fulfilment of the objectives of this resolution.
It follows the political statement of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, for which Mr. Deputy Cecilia Meireles has the word.
Deputies: We are at the top 12 days to start the discussion of the budget of the country so much measure that the government so much measure that the government so much measure that the government so much measure that the government so much measure that the government so much measure that the government so much measure that the government so much measure that the government so much measure that the government so much measure that the government so much measure that the government so much measure that the government so much measure that the government so much measure that the government so much measure that the government so much measure that the government so much measure that the government so much measure that the government so much measure that the government so much measure that the government so much measure that the government so much measure that the government so much measure that the government so much measure that the government so much measure that the government so much
very well!
It is important to be aware of the fact that it is important to be aware of the fact that it is important to be aware of the fact that it is important to be aware of the fact that it is important to be aware of the fact that it is important to be aware of the fact that it is important to be aware of the fact that it is important to be aware of the fact that it is important to be aware of the fact that it is important to be aware of the fact that it is important to be aware of the fact that it is important to be aware of the fact that it is important to be aware of the fact that it is important to be aware of the fact that it is important to be aware of the fact that it is important to be aware of the fact that it is important to be aware of the fact that it is important to be aware of the fact that it is important to be aware of the fact that it is important to be aware of the
I would like to draw your attention to the time used.
The first urgency is to protect the most vulnerable, the second and last is to protect employment and work.
It is the first time that we have the right to do so, and we have the right to do so, and we have the right to do so, and we have the right to do so.
In a serene but objective analysis, what is the economic and financial situation of the country, we are obliged to conclude, in the first place, that the economic situation of the country is all worse than that that the government has anticipated. in the second place, we are obliged to conclude that the generality of the CDS-PP's Parliamentary Group for the topic chosen for its political declaration and for the relevance of the same. in the third place, the companies feel disappointed. in what is the economic and financial situation of the country, we are obliged to conclude, in the first place, that the economic situation of the country is all worse than that the government has anticipated. in the second place, we are obliged to conclude that the generality of the CDS-PP's Parliamentary Group, in the second place, we are obliged to
Deputy Joao Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the word for a request for clarification.
Deputies, Mr. Deputy Cecilia Meireles, I thank you very much for bringing this topic. I didn’t intend to ask you for a clarification, but there was something that left me thinking and I liked to hear your opinion about what I can call a serious and exemplary phenomenon of cognitive dissonance. The next time you ask me what it is, I’ll point to this PS bank and say: “This is an example of cognitive dissonance.” Or, for those who don’t like the technical jargon so much, it’s: “Look to what I say, don’t look to what I do!”
Oh! very well...
It is that, in relation to the situation, of whose diagnosis, in good part, sharing, there is a aspect that I think curious: when the Government presents its Recovery Plan, despite its own “paraminister” Eng.o Costa Silva mention that are the companies that create wealth and employment, let’s see this Recovery Plan and the companies are a stand-by-page note, somewhere, as indirect beneficiaries of infrastructure, of their qualifications, with a very little important presence. When the Prime Minister himself says it is fundamental to mobilize the energies, whether of companies or of citizens, what is what we see? A appeal to this same participation and does not see well where the citizens can collaborate.
Mr. Cecilia Meireles, in total, four Members registered to ask for clarifications.
Yes Mr President.
You have the word to answer.
Deputies Jorge Paulo Oliveira and João Cotrim de Figueiredo they have seen their questions. I think it is worth creating, at this time, we will remember one thing: the reality we have is that the economy is not working as usual. Part of the companies is stopped, or walking more slowly, or with fewer orders. And this situation, unfortunately — and I emphasize “unfortunately” — will remain that the way of the people to the way of the people to the way of the people to the way of the people to the way of the people to the way of the people to the way of the people to the way of the people to the way of the people to the way of the people to the way of the people to the way of the people to the way of the people.
Deputy Duarte Alves, of the PCP, has the word for a request for clarification.
In fact, we are, today, faced with special new problems, which are the consequence of the pandemic, and faced with the structural problems that the country had already faced and which have worsened significantly with the pandemic and with its comprehensive economic consequences. The question that is placed on the national salva of the particular salva that is, at this time, that is this: what the responses with the internal forums, that is the minimum forums, that is the minimum forums, that is the minimum forums, that is the minimum forums, that is the minimum forums, that is the minimum forums.
Deputy Hugo Costa, of the PS, for a request for clarification.
Mr. President, compliment to Mr. Deputy Cecilia Meireles for the choice of the topic that the CDS brought us. If it is true that the current economic and social crisis puts new and important challenges to all and if it is true that the pandemic situation puts, also, important challenges to companies, workers, the economic and social situation and consequences in employment, it does not cease to be true that it is the height of Portugal to have a real resilience plan, a full plan of trust and a full plan of economic reconstruction. We got to know that the CDS is against the public investment. If the CDS is against the rail stake, something that, for years and years, has not been done? CDS is against the public investment in the low density territories, the name of the economic and social law and consequences in employment, it is the height of
This is the result of the protest of the PSD Deputy Duarte Marques.
Therefore, I ask what is the concrete proposal of the CDS at housing level. In relation to the government's response, we emphasize that the CDS recognizes the importance of the simplified layoff. Thousands and thousands of jobs have been saved by this measure. But we wanted to realize what concrete measures is that the CDS presents us. The government presented credit lines, simplified layoff, a set of measures that allowed to save.
I call your attention to the time.
We know well that the good is the enemy of the good, so we question the CDS in the sense of knowing what concrete measures it presents to respond to this pandemic crisis.
Mr. Cecilia Meireles, you have the word to answer.
Deputies. I start by saying that I heard from the Socialist Party banking: “We got to know that the CDS is against public investment.” Now, I liked to say that the CDS is not against public investment. I am, yes, against the idea of considering private initiative a kind of second partner of the State and public investment, which has the function of paying taxes, paying accounts and little more. Yes! I think most of the investment should be private. That’s how a prosperous society works. No problem! Deputies Hugo Costa that we are against rail investment. I am not against rail investment, but I have a memory! I still remember when the big investment was not rail, but rail, and it was called “auto-strate”.
and Paul Campos.
Therefore, realize that when I hear about big public investment plans, when I hear “now it’s what it’s going to be”, when before we had to fight the interiority with the highways, but now it’s not, it’s the Railroad Country, I look to it all with a bit of uncertainty, especially when I see these positions, in the plans, big words, big intentions, but then, of the salary to the salary that I do the concrete measures, I see very little. as far as the concrete measures for the smallest countries, I’ve been to the smallest countries, I’ve been to the smallest countries, I’ve been to the smallest countries, I’ve been to the smallest countries, I’ve been to the smallest countries, I’ve been to the smallest countries, I’ve been
I call your attention to the time.
Deputy, think well about the formulas that these countries followed so that people will live so and you will find them all, even all, in your party. Your party leads to these miseries.
It has the word, for a political statement, Mr. Inês Deputy of Sousa Real, of the PAN.
For example, if you do not have the right to do so, you will have the right to do so; if you do not have the right to do so, you will have the right to do so; if you do not have the right to do so, you will have the right to do so; if you do not have the right to do so, you will have the right to do so; if you do not have the right to do so, you will have the right to do so; if you do not have the right to do so, you will have the right to do so; if you do not have the right to do so, you will have the right to do so.
I call your attention to the time.
I will conclude, Mr. President. If tauromaquia no longer should take place in a context of health normality, much less has in a context like that we live, in which society has been forced to enormous sacrifices and deprivations, in which citizens and citizens are deprived of carrying their lives with normality and health professionals are exposed to an increased waste. It is thus absolutely incomprehensible for the PAN this exception by the State, as well as the total impunity that has ruled in front of this sector.
5 Responses to How do you want to answer?
I will answer the first two and then the remaining three.
You have the word to ask for clarification, Mr. Fernanda Velez.
Mr. President, Mr. Regressor, Mr. Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy
I call your attention to time, Mr. Deputy.
But we cannot follow the goal of the PAN that consists in putting into practice a taste policy, repudiating activities that, according to the current law, are considered cultural spectacles.
To ask for clarification, you have the word to Mrs. Anna Rita Bessa.
Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr.
very well!
To answer, you have the word to Mr. Inês Deputy of Sousa Real.
Mr. President, first of all I want to thank Mr. Deputies for the questions they raised. Mr. Deputies of the PSD already get us accustomed to your obsession — and I reward you the sympathy you addressed me — because sickness, it seems to us, is trying to raise the culture which consists in violence and evil treatment to the animals.
There is no disrespect!
... on the part of who has been attending this spectacle by the rules and guidelines of the General Directorate of Health. Even because, Mr. Deputy, I remember that these images have already circulated, including, in the organs of social media and, including, the Polygrafo program has already dedicated time to analyze the veracity of this image. Protests of the Deputy of the PS Pedro do Carmo on the CD on the government. Therefore, the PAN does not come here to bring anything that has not been already addressed by the rules and guidelines of the General Directorate of Health. And that there are no indications that, effectively, this situation has occurred. But Mr. Deputy, told that it is also a legitimate concern with a discrimination, because we will not listen to a bad word to the question of the Deputy of the PS Pedro do Carmo on the CD
I want to conclude, Mr.
This is why I advise you to take a closer look at the work of the...
I apologize, but it will not be possible.
... because, in fact, we have had not only concerns as we have brought here a question that is quite legitimate and with which it is not playing, which is the health of all people.
by André Ventura.
Mr. President and it does not matter to the same thing. Mr. President and it does not matter to the same thing to the same thing to the same thing to the same thing to the same thing to the same thing to the same thing to the same thing to the same thing to the same thing to the same thing to the same thing to the same thing to the same thing to the same thing to the same thing to the same thing to the same thing to the same thing to the same thing to the same thing to the same thing to the same thing to the same thing to the same thing to the same thing to the same thing to the same thing to the same thing to the same thing to the same thing to the same thing to the same thing to the same thing to the same thing to the same thing to the same thing to the same thing to the same thing to the same thing to the same thing to the same thing to the same thing to the same thing to
President Eduardo Barroco de Melo.
Mr. President, I must begin by saying that, in fact, it is necessary to notice this supreme irony of the Chega when speaking of manipulation of the truth.
very well!
Mr. Deputat Inês Sousa Real, unlike Mr. Deputat Ana Rita Bessa, I was a little surprised by the speech that here brought us, for a simple reason. It is that we share, even, a personal position on the tourades, so I am in this field, but I consider that, in fact, what we are doing is not a debate on the legitimacy of the tourades, it is a debate on the presence or not of the public in sports shows and cultural shows.
very well!
The President of the Republic of Lithuania, President of the Republic of Lithuania, President of the Republic of Lithuania, President of the Republic of Lithuania, President of the Republic of Lithuania, President of the Republic of Lithuania, President of the Republic of Lithuania, President of the Republic of Lithuania, President of the Republic of Lithuania, President of the Republic of Lithuania, President of the Republic of Lithuania, President of the Republic of Lithuania, President of the Republic of Lithuania, President of the Republic of Lithuania, President of the Republic of Lithuania, President of the Republic of Lithuania, President of the Republic of Lithuania, President of the Republic of Lithuania, President of the Republic of Lithuania, President of the Republic of Lithuania, President of the Republic of Lithuania, President of the Republic of Lithuania
I am paying attention to time.
We can, in fact, have a sustainability of cultural and sports activity in Portugal, which I think is what we all desire.
It has the word, to ask for clarification, Mr. Deputy Paula Santos, of the PCP.
On your intervention and the issues it puts here, I would like to address a aspect, which seems to us to be the main aspect relating to the implementation of a set of cultural and sports activities in our country, whether they are of the professional or amateur scope, which is the same importance that this has for the lives of people and also for the health and well-being that you have the problem of a specific association and the well-being of a population itself. The epidemic of the COVID and the issues it puts here, I would like to address a aspect, which the situation implies is the taking of measures for the prevention and mitigation of the disease — especially in the local work, the housing and the transportation — and that it makes the level of the difficulties that this has for the lives of the people and also for the health and well-being of the people
Your time has ended.
The question that the PCP would like to put, Mr. Deputy, is whether, for the PAN, it is not, in fact, important, respecting the existing recommendations, resuming cultural activities, resuming sports activities, for the well-being of all of us, because culture and sport are part of our lives, are part of our identity and are essential elements for the development and well-being of the populations.
You have the word, to answer, Mr. Deputy Inês Sousa Real.
Deputy and to Mr. P. P. P. P. P. P. P. P. P. P. P. P. P. P. P. P. P. P. P. P. P. P. P. P. P. P. P. P. P. P. P. P. P. P. P. P. P. P. P. P. P. P. P. P. P. P. P. P. P. P. P. P. P. P. P. P. P. P. P. P. P. P. P. P. P. P. P. P. P. P. P. P. P. P. P. P. P. P. P. P. P. P. P. P. P. P. P. P. P. P. P. P. P. P. P. P.
Mr. Deputy, you have to finish.
If this does not bother you, we will bother you deeply, and we will not be silent about it.
This is the latest statement by deputy Pedro Coimbra of the PS.
On the other hand, it is important to note that it is important to note that it is important to note that it is important to note that it is important to note that it is important to note that it is important to note that it is important to note that it is important to note that it is important to note that it is important to note that it is important to note that it is important to note that it is important to note that it is important to note that it is important to note that it is important to note that it is important to note that it is important to note that it is important to note that it is important to note that it is important to note that it is important to note that it is important to note that it is important to note that it is important to note that it is important to note that it is important to note that it is important to note that it is important to note that it is important to note that it is important to note that it
The Board of Directors is registering six requests for clarification.How do you want to respond?
I will respond to three and then to the other three.
Deputy Bruno Dias of the PCP.
It is important to emphasize that the extension and gravity of the public problems that the country faces — the pair of answers and solutions to immediate problems, the adoption of a policy that breaks with the right policy that, over the course of decades, it has generated and accentuated the PC's shortness to the shortness to the shortness to the shortness to the shortness to the shortness to the shortness to the shortness to the shortness to the shortness to the shortness to the shortness to the shortness to the shortness to the shortness to the shortness to the shortness to the shortness to the shortness to the shortness to the shortness to the shortness to the shortness to the shortness to the shortness to the shortness to the shortness to the shortness to the shortness to the shortness to the shortness to the shortness to the
Deputy José Luís Ferreira of the PEV.
On this name Deputy Pedro Coimbra, I wanted to congratulate you that close deputy deputy deputy deputy deputy deputy deputy deputy deputy deputy deputy deputy deputy deputy deputy deputy deputy deputy deputy deputy deputy deputy deputy deputy deputy deputy deputy deputy deputy deputy deputy deputy deputy deputy deputy deputy deputy deputy deputy deputy deputy deputy deputy deputy deputy deputy deputy deputy deputy deputy deputy deputy deputy deputy deputy deputy deputy deputy deputy deputy deputy deputy deputy deputy deputy deputy deputy deputy deputy deputy deputy deputy deputy deputy deputy deputy deputy deputy deputy deputy deputy deputy deputy deputy deputy deputy deputy deputy deputy dep
very well!
Mr. Inês de Sousa Real, of PAN, has the word.
Deputies, before more today we congratulate the P.S. to make the concrete appearance that the proposed P.S. has the same opportunity to make the same appearance that the same appearance that the same appearance that the same appearance that the same appearance that the same appearance that the same appearance that the same appearance that the same appearance that the same appearance that the same appearance that the same appearance that the same appearance that the same appearance that the same appearance that the same appearance that the same appearance that the same appearance that the same appearance that the same appearance that the same appearance that the same appearance that the same appearance that the same appearance that the same appearance.
Deputy Pedro Coimbra of the PS.
Deputy José Luís Ferreira and Mr. Deputy Inês de Sousa Real want respect for the questions that put me and the interventions that made. Deputy Bruno Dias, I want to tell you that, of course, the questions that put are in the first priorities of all government action and the resilience plan that will be submitted on the day 15. Prime Minister — in the topics of employment, health and social benefits that are in this region, that are those that you put here to the Administration. Good part of what is intended to be the investment in the next years also passes through, as it has been widely disclosed and as it has been presented. Deputy José Luís Ferreira, a little in the following, that on the issues of nature, the environment and the agriculture I will be able to say exactly the same, it is also in the question that the public intervention and
I am paying attention to time.
I will finish, Mr. President. Therefore, they are obviously very relevant matters and that pass, precisely, through this modernization. To have a modernization there must be investments and conditions for it must be created. That’s exactly what it is intended and that’s a way to do in the next decade.
He is the deputy Elizabeth Pires of the Left Bloc.
Deputy Pedro Coimbra defines the social and social crisis that we are going through and on which the next point this Parliament has come to debrus itself. Deputy says the precise thing that the government wants to be the side that does not respond to this debate. The certain height of his intervention, pointed out that it is important to take responsibility at a time such as this that we are going through. And we all realize that this is a moment of crisis caused not only by the health issue but also by the economic and social crisis that we are going through and on which the next point this Parliament has come to debrus itself. Deputy says the precise thing that the government wants to be the side that the government wants to be the side that the government wants to be the side that the government wants to be the side that the government wants to be the side that the government wants to be the side that
Mr. Deputy, you have to finish.
... or, then, on the side of the precariety and the pull of the New Bank, for example, what will remain or not?
Deputy Christophe Nord, of the PSD, has the word.
Mr. Pedro Coimbra, the PS is extraordinary, it’s indeed unstable.
Very much thanks!
... in this logic of the Government all do to the service of the Portuguese and of this plan of resilience and economic recovery, which, in the background, no one knows, be the alpha and the omega of all the intervention that will rescue the Portuguese of this difficult situation. but, unfortunately, this idea is false.
Very well seen!
Yesterday, they made a presentation, a PowerPoint with 10 slides, but in particular, no one knows the plan. If we don’t know the plan, how should we discuss it?
of course!
We can’t say that the plan is good or bad or whatever it is! Deputy, take advantage of this opportunity, as the Socialist Party group takes advantage of it, to encourage a plan that the country doesn’t know, that the Assembly of the Republic doesn’t know and that no one knows what it is out. The only thing we know is that everything that consists in this famous plan is priority. Deputy, in his intervention, said, when they’ve been talking about the dry, that it’s a priority; then, when they’ve been talking about the environment, he said that it’s a priority; then, when they’ve been talking about agriculture, he said that it’s a priority. It’s all a priority. This is like a Bimby — we put a thing inside and we don’t know what it’s out!
I am paying attention to time.
Therefore, I ask you two very simple questions, the first is the following: finally, what is the priority? the second question is: when is it that the Government will look at this situation and will take measures with breath so that the Country will not turn into a lot of ruins, with great economic losses, more difficult than those that already result from this critical situation that we are facing?
I am a member of the European Parliament and I am a member of the European Parliament and I am a member of the European Parliament.
Deputy Pedro Coimbra and to thank you for bringing here this same topic. The topic in itself is important, but it would be more important, as it is obvious, to bring us here the plan million and that we could know it. It is hard to be here to discuss a merely PowerPoint that was distributed. I would say that there is some propaganda, as it is obvious, and that the Socialist Party is going to know how to present these things, always with the PowerPoints that it is very nice, but what is sure is that it is not the debt of the government? It is not the debt of the government? It is not the debt of the government? It is not the debt of the government? It is not the debt of the government? It is not the debt of the government? It is not the debt of the government? It is not the debt of the government? It
The Deputy.
I am ending, Mr. President. The debt to the companies, this, is not relevant? Deputy, the companies do not need credit lines to pay taxes. What they need is less taxes and less bureaucracy. And, I tell you more, they need is less State.
Deputy Pedro Coimbra.
Deputy João Gonçalves Pereira the questions they put me and the interventions they made. Mr. Deputy Isabel Pires, of course, the question you put is also for the Socialist Party and,, for the Government, as it has also been said, very important and relevant. It has been stated more than once that the way is not the loss of income. The way will continue to be, as it has been in the recent past, the recovery of income. This is an absolutely essential question for the Socialist Party and for the Government. Prime Minister. Therefore, this is the way we will continue. There is no minor doubt regarding this. The recovery of income, associated, including, to the rise of the minimum, as it has been said to be the program, it has not been an absolute question for the Socialist government, it has not even been a question for the recovery of income.
It was the truth!
You said, here, that it is all priority, that there is no document, that there is no discussion and that there is nothing.
The deputy said!
Deputy was in a parliamentary committee where it was presented the basic document that Portugal will present, on October 15th, in Brussels, for the recovery of the country in the next decade. It is a document that was preceded by a wide public discussion and an absolutely significant contribution of civil society, which involved citizens and the most diverse entities, a rich and constructive debate. Protests of the PSD and the CH. Therefore, when you come here to say that there are no priorities is because you don’t read the document. You should read it! When you come here to say that the Government will not take measures, you are saying that you don’t read it or don’t know the document. It was to read it and should know it, because it was presented in fact, in the parliament with which the Prime Minister and the most diverse entities belongs to the
And the companies?
Public debt decreased and GDP increased, i.e. public debt decreased compared to GDP.
The Deputy.
I will conclude, Mr. President. Prime Minister that it will not be proper, at this time, to resort to these loans from Europe, which does not mean that it cannot come to do. This is nothing more than a serious, responsible attitude in the defense of the country and in the fight against a structural problem that we have, which is precisely the public debt of Portugal.
Deputies, ended the first point of the agenda, with the political statements, we pass to the second point, which consists of the assessment of the Petition No. 57/XIV/1.a (Joana Isabel Gentil Soares and others) — Support for all children with school age up to 12 years during the entire period of reading suspension. Deputies register at the Table for their respective interventions.
Deputies: This petition has entered the Assembly six months ago, asking for a set of support for children in the context of this pandemic, but the support that is needed has today a quite different meaning, because today we have to do everything possible so that the school does not stop, the school year is not suspended and our children and young people continue to have access to the social elevator that the school constitutes. Today, we have to ensure that, among the rights of the children and the pressures of the teachers’ syndicates, we choose the children and their development greet. Today, we have to ensure that there are no more unhuman guidelines from the DGS, as it was the case of the orientation relative to the isolation of children and young people at risk that they were in residence. Today, we have to ensure that our children can even practice the social elevator that the
I am a member of Bebiana Cunha, of PAN.
Deputies, obecoras, to the same time, to the same time, to the same time, to the same time, to the same time, to the same time, to the same time, to the same time, to the same time, to the same time, to the same time, to the same time, to the same time, to the same time, to the same time, to the same time, to the same time, to the same time, to the same time, to the same time.
Deputy Alexandra Vieira.
Deputies: The Bloc de Esquerda pre-regulate these curricula proposals that the family is predicted and encouraged to the local more than 4000 petitioners who have signed up to the petition so that the support to all children with school age up to the age of 12 years during the period of leetive suspension. Despite the fact that we are not currently in the period of interruptions of the leetive activities present, the petition has made all the sense of the free, insofar as the extraordinary support to the family is predicted to the truth that the child is predicted to the truth that the child is predicted to the truth that the child is predicted to the truth that the child is predicted to the truth that the child is predicted to the truth that the child is predicted to the truth that the child is predicted
Deputy Mariana Silva of the Greens.
To minimize the repercussions of the closing of the schools in this period and to minimize the benefits of this period and to minimize the benefits of this period and to minimize the benefits of this period and to minimize the benefits of this period and to minimize the benefits of this period and to minimize the benefits of this period and to minimize the benefits of this period and to minimize the benefits of this period and to minimize the benefits of this period and to minimize the benefits of this period and to minimize the benefits of this period and to minimize the benefits of this period and to minimize the benefits of this period and to minimize the benefits of this period and to minimize the benefits of this period.
For an intervention, you have the word to Mr. Deputy Anna Rita Bessa, of the CDS-PP.
Deputies: I would say, until this last intervention is profered, that this was one of those rare moments in which, more or less, we are all agree, but no longer can do it. But, despite all, we are close, Mr. Deputies Mariana Silva, because, in fact, in the substance of the petition, that was asked to be extended the exceptional support for parents of children under the age of 12 during the leetive suspension, we agree that it does not make sense its point that the Government arrived, that it was the justification of the faults, but without the respective remuneration remuneration. And it does not make sense because the principle for that exceptional support was given was the one that was kept during the leetive interruption. In fact, the parents of the children under the age of 12 and that the question was not
For a statement, you have the word to Mr. Germana Rocha, of the PSD.
It is the first time that we have been able to do so, and the last time that we have been able to do so, and the last time that we have been able to do so, and the last time that we have been able to do so, and the last time that we have been able to do so, and the last time that we have been able to do so, and the last time that we have been able to do so, and the last time that we have been able to do so, and the last time that we have been able to do so, and the last time that we have been able to do so, and the last time that we have been able to do so, and the last time that we have been able to do so, and the last time that we have been able to do so, and the last time that we have been able to do so, and the last time that we have been able to do so, and the
For an intervention, he has the word to Mr. Deputy Lúcia Araújo Silva, of the PS.
Deputies: all the moments are presented in the form of the social state, the form of the social state, the form of the social state, the form of the social state, the form of the social state, the form of the social state, the form of the social state, the form of the social state, the form of the social state, the form of the social state, the form of the social state, the form of the social state, the form of the social state, the form of the social state, the form of the social state, the form of the social state, the form of the social state, and the form of the social state.
It has now the word, for an intervention, Mr. Deputy of the PCP, Alma Rivera.
This petition, to whose subscribers the PCP used to greet, emerged precisely to require a response to the complex situation with which the families were confronted, having to work and not having to leave the staff of the school was guaranteed for the period of the school of the staff of the staff of the staff of the staff of the staff of the staff of the staff of the staff of the staff of the staff of the staff of the staff of the staff of the staff of the staff of the staff of the staff of the staff of the staff of the staff of the staff.
We pass to the assessment of the Petition No. 636/XIII/4.a (Movement for Support for Mother and Child Health of the Guard, MASMI, represented by Ismael Escudeiro Martins Duarte) — Demand the adoption of measures with a view to the re-qualification of the Pavilion of the Pavilion of the Pavilion of the Hospital of Sousa Martins, S.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.
Deputies, the second, even the phase I’m talking about this phase I’m talking about this phase I’m talking about this phase I’m talking about this phase I’m talking about this phase I’m talking about this phase I’m talking about this phase I’m talking about this phase I’m talking about this phase I’m talking about this phase I’m talking about this phase I’m talking about this phase I’m talking about this phase I’m talking about this phase I’m talking about this phase I’m talking about this phase I’m talking about this phase I’m talking about this phase I’m talking about this phase I’m talking about this phase I’m talking about this phase I’m talking about this phase I’m talking about this phase I’m
by Carlos Peixoto.
It is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of fact that it is not a matter of
The Deputy.
I conclude, Mr. President, saying the following: it is precisely for this illness, that so badly treats the guards, that the Government also has to answer, but that on this has done as the avestruz. And I apologize to say what the avestruz does: put the head in the sand and we can’t even know if it hears or not of shame.
by Santinho Pacheco.
I am the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is
Do the work!
This is the most important part of the world’s economy, and the most important part of the world’s economy, and the most important part of the world’s economy, and the most important part of the world’s economy.
I call your attention to the time.
Finally, Mr. President. So far, all the decisive steps for the execution of the Pavilion 5 work have been given, this first such significant step: we have approved the functional program and the procurement procedure of the execution project, the proposals of which the competitors are already in the phase of analysis and evaluation. The realization of the investment of €6 945 000 obtained the favourable preliminary opinion of the ARS Center (Regional Health Administration of the Center).
Deputy, you have to finish.
We will continue, as soon as possible, the procedures leading to the execution of the second phase of the Guard Hospital, fulfilling the commitment of Antonio Costa. As always, the PS is with the Guard to respond to its structural problems, in health, on the railway, in cross-border relations.
Member of the European Parliament and Member of the European Parliament and Member of the European Parliament.
There is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there
Deputy Duarte Alves.
I am the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is
For an intervention, he has the word to Mr. Deputy Mariana Silva, of the PEV.
Deputies: In the district of the Guard as well as the main appearance in a century building are guaranteed by the Guard as well as the Guard as well as the Guard as well as the Guard as well as the Guard as well as the Guard as well as the Guard as well as the Guard as well as the Guard as well as the Guard as well as the Guard as well as the Guard as well as the Guard as well.
Deputy André Ventura, from Chega.
Mr. President, the Chega begins by greeting the more than 18,000 petitioners for resistance and resilience, because, in fact, it is resilience and resistance that needs to be. On September 8, 2019, Antonio Costa promised to uncover the second phase of the Guard Hospital. Deputy of the Socialist Party. Yesterday and before, we knew that it is in studies, that the contest was opened, that it will continue to wait and that there is no scheduled date to advance. That is how we continue in the socialist kingdom, to say that “one day we will do the works they want, it’s all a priority.” It’s important to say that, in the State Budget for 2020, after this proposal has already been made, no verba was included for maternal health. The GMI considered that the facilities are not even in this cent
The Deputy.
Now it’s time to know who’s interested in the emptying of the Sousa Martins Hospital, who’s interested in it, what kind of interests there are in it, and above all, whether the PS, with its left-wing partners, will or will not make available a money from the State Budget to finally give way to such an important work.
Deputies, not giving any more inscriptions, are ended in the Regdio/Law/Law/Law/Law/Law/Law/Law/Law/Law/Law/Law/Law/Law/Law/Law/Law/Law/Law/Law/Law/Law/Law/Law/Law/Law/Law/Law/Law/Law/Law/Law/Law/Law/Law/Law/Law/Law/Law/Law/Law/Law/Law/Law/Law/Law/Law/Law/Law/Law/Law/Law/Law/Law/Law/Law/Law/Law/Law/Law/L
The first point of this session consists of the discussion of the Bill No. 473/XIV/1.a (PS) — Approves the Charter of Fundamental Rights in the Digital Age and 498/XIV/1.a (PAN) — Approves the Charter of Digital Rights and a set of complementary measures to ensure the strengthening of the guarantees of citizens in the digital field.
Deputies, gave entry to the Board, and were admitted by Mr. President, the Projects of Resolution No. 675/XIV/2.a (PS) and 676/XIV/2.a (PSD). Announcement, also, that the proposer was withdrawn the Projects of Law No. 141/XIV/1.a (PEV).
We will then start the first point of our agenda, which consists of the debate, in general, of the Bill No. 473/XIV/1.a (PS) and 498/XIV/1.a (PAN).
The latter, the latter, the latter, the latter, the latter, the latter, the latter, the latter, the latter, the latter, the latter, the latter, the latter, the latter, the latter, the latter, the latter, the latter, the latter, the latter, the latter, and the latter.
very well!
For the purposes of this Agreement of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament
by Nelson Silva.
As a result of this, it is necessary to ensure that there is an adequate level of safety and safety, and to ensure that there is an adequate level of safety and safety, and to ensure that there is an adequate level of safety and safety, and to ensure that there is an adequate level of safety and safety, and to ensure that there is an adequate level of safety and safety, and to ensure that there is an adequate level of safety and safety, and to ensure that there is an adequate level of safety and safety, and to ensure that there is an adequate level of safety and safety, and to ensure that there is an adequate level of safety and safety.
by Joao Oliveira.
Deputy José Magalhães, regarding the presentation that made of the draft law digitation without the force of the Socialist Party. Deputy, I wanted to limit you to say the following: regardless of our discord to some ambitious formulation, as otherwise results from its intervention, with a pretension that seems to be underlying the initiative of the Socialist Party of a kind of codification of the Napoleonic means that the proposal of the other subjects of the Union of the digital era, that the proposal of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic
If a request for clarification has only two minutes, if an intervention has three.
Mr President, let me conclude that I promise that I will not extend much more time.
The job is to facilitate the work.
Deputy José Magalhães, with the following: this Socialist Party bill crossed with several other diplomas that exist and that regulate sensitive matters, such as those that are here treated. We talk about the collection and processing of individual data in health, we talk about matters related to consumer rights, we talk about matters related, for example, with the fight against child pornography. Therefore, there are several aspects that articulate with matters that are here defined and there are aspects of those that are essential and that is necessary to respond to there of what is provided in the Socialist Party bill.
It is an intervention, it is not a request for clarification.
I conclude, Mr. President, and I ask the following: the Socialist Party considers that what it presents in its draft law is fully articulated with the other diplomas that exist and there is some idea of how the norms that exist already today and regulate a number of situations that are here reflected are dispensable or understands that, also in this legislative process, it is necessary to consider the solution that is defined for some matters, such as, for example, that of the treatment of personal data in health, which also needs to be reviewed in the light of some of the criteria that are here introduced in the draft law of the Socialist Party?
The deputy José Magalhães wants to respond right now or at the end.
At the end, Mr. President.
very well.
I ask for the word, Mr. President.
The Deputy?
This is the first time I’ve been able to do it, and I’ve been able to do it.
I'm not sure if I'm going to do it, but I'm not sure if I'm going to do it.
Mr. President, I apologize, my request for clarification was a true request for clarification to the Socialist Party and must have an answer now. Deputy José Manuel Pureza intends to make an intervention, which should take place later.
He said that he would not respond, but he would not respond.
Mr President, I ask for the word.
Mr. Anna Catarina Mendes, we’re not going to waste a lot of time with this, right?
We will not waste any time.Mr. José Magalhães wants to respond to the request for clarification of the PCP at this time.
It was not what he said!
It’s not what I said to you, but it’s good.
Deputy João Oliveira, the answer is very simple and very short: it’s a “no” and it’s a “yes”. No, we don’t want to make a Napoleon coding of everything concerning fundamental rights in the digital age. Why?
That was my fear!
The Union doesn’t want to do it, we don’t want to do it, the Assembly, by our proposal, also won’t do it. Aplause of the PS. Second, the articulation of the legislation with the one that is in force and with the other that will be produced is absolutely fundamental and I’ve seen by the consultations and suggestions that there are several that are relevant and useful and that we can accommodate, in the specialty, to make a text that accommodates these concerns and improves the protection. One thing completely certain is that we don’t want a letter “without teeth”, that is, without practical value, without relevant value and without effectiveness that is projected in the sphere of citizens. Therefore, it has to have concrete solutions to concrete problems and for this we appeal to your efforts and contributions.
President José Manuel Pureza.
For example, if you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company.
President João Cotrim de Figueiredo.
Deputies: In this liberal minute, I wanted to begin by confessing that I liked the title of the PS bill, the Charter of Fundamental Rights in the Digital Age, but then I realized that it was just the title, because this Charter ends up a badly disguised excuse to approve avulsive instruments of monitoring and digital control by the State. Therefore, this Charter is no praise to the digital modernity and risks, as the letters of love that talked the heterogeneous of the notorious liberal Fernando Pessoa, to be a ridiculous letter: ridiculous because if it had been written 500 years ago it would be the king or the queen to have greater control over the sender, on the recipients and even on the contents of the cards; because if it had been written the foundation of the 100 years, it would have been the
A great tweet!
And if I had stayed here, I would no longer run the risk of being ridiculous.
You were ridiculous!
For an intervention, he has the word to Mr. Deputy Sara Madruga da Costa.
Deputies: The world has changed! From day to day, the digital age has transformed our daily life, our way of working, of studying, of communicating and the way we relate to ourselves socially. Digital communication, media, robotics, artificial intelligence, e-commerce and digital companies are some of the great challenges that we are facing. We are facing such a fundamental transformation that is only equal to the provoked by the Industrial Revolution. Deputies, unfortunately, and unlike what would be desirable and hopeful, Portugal continues in the last carriages of this revolution. Deputies, continues to be quite worrying: the number of houses with access to the internet continues incredibly low; still there are considerable areas without broadband or mobile communications with the analogy process of electronic communications; we are facing such a fundamental transformation that
Deputies, for the purposes of this Regulation and the provisions of this Regulation and the provisions of this Regulation and the provisions of this Regulation and the provisions of this Regulation and the provisions of this Regulation and the provisions of this Regulation and the provisions of this Regulation and the provisions of this Regulation and the provisions of this Regulation and the provisions of this Regulation and the provisions of this Regulation and the provisions of this Regulation and the provisions of this Regulation and the provisions of this Regulation and the provisions of this Regulation and the provisions of this Regulation and the provisions of this Regulation and the provisions of this Regulation and the provisions of this Regulation and the provisions of this Regulation and the provisions of this Regulation and the provisions of this Regulation and the provisions of this Regulation and
by Bruno Aragão.
Deputies: Mr. Deputy Sara Madruga, the Charter of Fundamental Rights is a requirement of a new era, which the pandemic has not discovered but which has definitely accelerated.
very well!
The technological and digital revolution is happening. Losing it, having consciousness of it, or ignoring it, not discussing it, is removing the country and the citizens from an inevitable and, above all, necessary revolution.
It is in this frame that the Socialist Party seeks to materialize a letter of rights, freedoms and guarantees in concrete proposals and it is what we ask the other parties, that is, that they can in this headquarters materialize a set of proposals that citizens, really, can feel. It was therefore, for example, that the Socialist Party, last week, discussed and approved in this Chamber a recommendation to the Government so that it creates a social rate of access to the internet. It was also this Government that proposed the distribution of 300,000 computers for students, especially for the most deficient, and it was also this Government that proposed an investment of more than 400 million euros for a digital school and it was also this Government that the following proposals in the training of the PS, last week, discussed and approved in this Chamber a recommendation to the Government so
by André Ventura.
Deputies: Today we discuss the Charter of Fundamental Rights in the Digital Age, presented by the Socialist Party, which, in fact, only by name is that it is a letter of Fundamental Rights. Deputies, and more than the grey discourse are the numbers —, I repeat, 32% have no internet at the speed considered sufficient... Protests of the Deputies of the PS José Magalhães.... and 35% of students are in schools where there is no internet, that when a few years ago the Prime Minister promised internet for all. This is the truth! To those who hear it seems that Google and Facebook will only come here because of the projects of the Socialist Party. Deputies: when we look at this standard, we realize that there is no will to protect the creators point 1; there is a flagrant breach that the Deputies of the PS Go
The Deputy.
I will finish, Mr. President, saying this: the Socialist Party has assumed itself today as the great censor in Portugal... Protests of the PS Deputy Ana Catarina Mendonça Mendes.... but it will not be able to silence the social networks.
You’ve spent more than 50% of the time you’ve been assigned.
But they will never be able to silence the social networks and the defense of freedom.
For a statement, he has the word to deputy Mariana Silva.
Deputies: The digital speed media in the simple business is increasingly dominated by the various differences of the information coverage to their territory, but also with negative impacts, in particular with regard to the permeability of public personal data, which are often manipulated by using artificial intelligence in an unthinkable and unimaginable way to the common of citizens, for commercial or other purposes. There is a reference to the national personal data in the real business or other purposes. There is a reference to the national personal data in the real business or other purposes. There is a reference to the national data in the real business or other purposes. There is a reference to the national data in the real business or other purposes. There is a reference to the national data in the real business or other purposes. There is a reference to the national data in the
very well!
You have now the word to Mr. Deputy Sara Madruga da Costa, for an intervention, which can also be transformed into a response to a question that was asked and that at the time the Table did not realize that it was a question.
Mr. President, obviously it will be a response. Deputy Bruno Aragão, the PSD is, as always was, available for a serious discussion to capture and prevent the various impacts of the digital revolution. If there were doubts about the nature of this discussion, it is now at the sight of all: the PS wants to make a campaign with a digital letter because it has nothing more to present on this matter, during this Legislature!
It has!
We could give many examples of this governmental inaction, but let’s just refer to one, just one example. Deputies, the schools of the continent continue to wait for the Government to deliver the computers and manuals it promised.
Deputy Hugo Carvalho of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
We do not know what we do, we do not know what we do, we do not know what we do, we do not know what we do, we do not know what we do, we do not know what we do, we do not know what we do, we do not know what we do, we do not know what we do, we do not know what we do, we do not know what we do, we do not know what we do, we do not know what we do, we do not know what we do.
Deputy Nelson Silva.
Mr. Hugo Carvalho, when hearing it — and I heard it with a lot of attention — I do not forget that the reading, only, of opinions does not give right, let’s say so, to a formed opinion about the proposals here in discussion. We are, as always, open to building bridges and seeking convergence points with all political forces, in the foundation of discussion in the specialty. The proposal of the PAN has no presumption of perfection, is an incentive to the debate for the solution of problems.
Deputy has to finish.
Deputy is very simple: will the PSD choose, through its proposals, to leave everything in the same or will it, in fact, contribute with innovative proposals, like those that have been presented here, today?
I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
I have to confess that I have been wondering if the request for clarification was really for me. PSD laughter. It is that, obviously, you have not heard — and we are here so close — what I said. MP João Oliveira laughter. It is not in the nature of the PSD being here to leave everything in it. Never was, and whoever is attentive to the country’s history will know that. PSD voices: — Very well!
I think it is in the nature of the Deputies to leave for second weddings the opinions that come to us from civil society and, simply, not to read them, also suggested that, now here arrived — and with the welcome I give you — a bit of this concept.
I'm not sure if you're going to be able to do it, but I'm not sure if you're going to be able to do it.
Mr.S President, the following is the question of whether or not the question is the question of whether or not the question is the question of whether or not the question of whether or not the question of whether or not the question of whether or not the question of whether or not the question of whether or not the question of whether or not the question of whether or not the question of whether or not the question of whether or not the question of whether or not the question of whether or not the question of whether or not the question of whether or not the question of whether or not the question of whether or not the question of whether or not the question of whether or not the question of whether or not the question of whether or not the question of whether or not the question of whether or not the question of whether or not the question of whether or not the question of whether or not the question of whether or not the question of whether or not the question of whether or not.
It is now the word, for an intervention, Mr. Deputy Elza Pais, of the Parliamentary Group of the PS.
Deputies, who are speaking for more than half of humanity have today access to the internet, who are speaking for more than half of humanity, who are speaking for more than half of humanity, who are speaking for more than half of humanity, who are speaking for more than half of humanity, who are speaking for more than half of humanity, who are speaking for more than half of humanity, who are speaking for more than half of humanity, who are speaking for more than half of humanity, who are speaking for more than half of humanity, who are speaking for more than half of humanity, who are speaking for more than half of humanity, who are speaking for more than half of humanity, who are speaking for more than half of humanity, who are speaking for more than half of humanity, who are speaking for more than half
Joao Oliveira, member of the PCP.
Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies.
Deputy has to conclude.
I will conclude, Mr. President. Deputy José Magalhães, this is incompatible with the right to internet neutrality!
Deputy has to conclude.
I will conclude, Mr. President. Network neutrality is a crucial aspect of the use of digital media, but it is uncompatible including with the law decree approved, a few months ago, by the Government. I could do here other references, as I did recently to the issues related to the collection of health data, in which the legislation we have today may also be uncompatible with some of the individual rights that are here provided.
I apologize, but it has to end.
I want to say that the issues of consent and the right to information are, today, absolutely essential issues and that, in many circumstances, cannot be satisfied only with added requirements of access to information and the provision of consent, since...
Tolerance, as you know, has a lot to say.
... can, in many circumstances, prevent the prohibition of the collection of certain individual data.
President José Magalhães.
Mr. President, I think it’s better when the debate approaches the brain surgery than when it polles in terms of the intensity of the voice. Therefore, I’m going to lower the voice and emphasize that our concern in this matter is to make the cut, in the most accurate way that is possible, of each of the rights that we think should be subject to statulation. We don’t include any reference to the right of the creators of cultural goods that we read the text that we read the text that we read the text that we read the text that we read the text that we read the text that we read the text that we read the text that we read the text that we read the text that we read the text that we read the text.
You are misleading!
I'm not going to go anything! in this matter, no one is worth it — don't get the shoe out of the chinela to the work. Therefore, we don't let ourselves impress by this type of apops or observations and we're going to need the cut. Deputy João Oliveira, I think that there's no reason to worry. We're not going to vote epigrafes, we're going to vote concrete articulates and we're waiting, with a lot of curiosity and with all the value that we're going to tweet that the band's tweet that we're going to do the proposals of the Portuguese Communist Party for the purposes of our work. We judge that we're convergent in the aim of increasing the rights and to burill without replacing the legislation that has to go ahead,
Deputies: The Socialist Party brought here this draft law, which approves a letter of fundamental rights in the digital era, and, given the task of the parliament, the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question.
We now pass to the second point of the contents and the l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l
It has the word, for an intervention, to the September, to the end, to the end, to the end, to the end, to the end, to the end, to the end, to the end, to the end, to the end, to the end, to the end, to the end, to the end, to the end, to the end, to the end, to the end, to the end, to the end, to the end, to the end, to the end, to the end, to the end, to the end, to the end, to the end, to the end, to the end, to the end, to the end, to the end.
Mr. Deputy, please conclude if you please. Mr. Bebiana Cunha (PAN):  I will conclude, Mr. President. Today, the International Day of the Elderly is celebrated and, therefore, we hope that it is also the day of turn to treat with the necessary dignity the elderly people in our country.
Deputy André Ventura. Deputies: Today we discuss the issue of houses and a proposal that aims to identify and solve their problems. A few days ago, we all heard Mr. Director-General of Health say that the numbers themselves were contradictory in terms of the number of outbreaks that exist in houses and the conditions of supervision that exist for these same houses. We heard the Government promise us that the brigades would be the great solution for the problem of houses. And what we had, a few days later, was that, finally, the number of members of these brigades was much lower than what had been promised and the number of cases resolved much lower than that had been ambitiated and that the number of inspectors and cases of inspection had decreased.
Mr. André Ventura (CH):  I will finish, Mr. President. We have the elderly completely abandoned to their luck, without any plan that allowed them to be or to be visited. And we continue to have a huge problem of supervision, which is one of the biggest public health scandals in Portugal. And that’s the fault of the Government of the Socialist Party.
Deputy Hugo Oliveira. Deputies: The well-being of our elderly is a constant concern of the Socialist Party and the Government. We always look at the elderly as someone to whom the Country owes a lot. There were people who worked a whole life and who now deserve respect and have a life with dignity. We never saw the elderly as a weight or a cost for the State, but yes, as people to whom my generation and the younger generations owe a lot. That's why we see with great satisfaction the PSD now want to improve the lives of these people. It's with great satisfaction that we see the PSD, with this project, join the Socialist Party and the Government in the struggle against this problem.
The Socialist Party and the Government have promoted the effective strengthening of social cooperation since 2016, especially in homes, with an increase and an improvement of the offer of vacancies in homes. But we also have promoted and improved the supervision, and since 2016 have already been carried out more than 2600 supervisions to homes, which has led to the lifting of more than 1600 cars, which has resulted in the closure of more than 500 homes. The Socialist Party, in addition to increasing the supply of homes, to monitor the homes, has also made efforts to regulate the “needly” homes that are susceptible to compliance with the regulations and simplifications of licensing, and since 2016 have already been carried out more than 2600 supervisions to homes, which has led to the lifting of more than 1600 cars, which has led to the closure of more than 500
Deputies, who still have more to hear. That is, we are already executing what the PSD today proposes. The same PSD that, while in the Government with the CDS-PP, took a single measure relative to the houses, that was increasing the number of beds per room, without any concern for the comfort and sanitary conditions of the users. This change of thought and attitude of the PSD regarding the well-being of the elderly is quite positive. We hope it is true, that it shut off the years of bad memory in which the elderly, for the PSD, were a kind of "grey pest", a cost for the state. Today, International Day of the Elderly, the Socialist Party strengthens its commitment to continue to fight for our elderly to have a lifetime. Because that all of our elderly, they give the whole country for their
It has the word, for an intervention, Deputy Mariana Silva, of the PEV.
Deputies: The index of aging conditions is regulated on the name of the previously aging conditions in Portugal, which has the primates that the needs are determined on the business that the needs are determined on the business that the needs are determined on the business that the needs are determined on the business that the needs are determined on the business that the needs are determined on the business that the needs are determined on the business that the needs are determined on the business that the needs are determined on the business that the needs are determined on the business that the needs are determined on the business that the needs are determined on the business that the needs are determined on the business that the needs are determined on the business that the needs are determined on the business that the needs are determined on the business that the needs are determined on the business that the needs are determined on the business that the needs are determin
For the next intervention, you have the word to Mr. Deputy Diana Ferreira of the PCP.
It is the most important part of the world, and the most important part of the world, and the most important part of the world, and the most important part of the world, and the most important part of the world, and the most important part of the world, and the most important part of the world, and the most important part of the world, and the most important part of the world, and the most important part of the world, and the most important part of the world, and the most important part of the world, and the most important part of the world.
I think it’s a good thing to do, but it’s a good thing to do.
This is the most important part of the world, the most important part of the world, the most important part of the world, the most important part of the world, the most important part of the world, the most important part of the world, the most important part of the world, the most important part of the world, the most important part of the world, the most important part of the world, the most important part of the world, the most important part of the world, the most important part of the world, the most important part of the world, the most important part of the world, the most important part of the world, the most important part of the world, the most important part of the world.
The Deputy.
We don’t need more elderly packed in the same equipment, we need more public offer, support to the caregivers, home support, a program of disinstitutionalization of care, there are alternatives.
Member of the European Parliament, João Pinho de Almeida.
There is no such thing as to say that there is no such thing as to say that there is no such thing as to say that there is no such thing as to say that there is no such thing as to say that there is no such thing as to say that there is no such thing as to say that there is no such thing as to say that there is no such thing as to say that there is no such thing as to say that there is no such thing as to say that there is no such thing as to say that there is no such thing as to say that there is no such thing as to say that there is no such thing as to say that there is no such thing as to say that there is no such thing as to say that there is no such thing as to say that there is no such thing.
I want to conclude.
What you know is that if the rules of the lotion of the houses were insensitive they had already changed them. They have not changed them alone and exclusively because these rules are true, and they make demagogy lying about that which is reality.
I'm not going to have a lot of money, I'm going to have a lot of money, I'm going to have a lot of money.
Mr. President, the record of my requests for intervention at the table will have to be reviewed, because this is no longer the first time that this happens. I was in fact registered and thank you for giving me the word.
I ask you for apologies and I personally take responsibility.
Mr. President, there is no problem. Portugal is, in fact, a country increasingly aged, and this is not a novelty for no one. That is one of the least developed countries of the European Union even less novelty is, unfortunately. But a consequence of these two facts — that, yes, often ignored — is that the overwhelming majority of our elderly have a lack of quality of life noted and, for the most varied reasons, they opt, or see themselves obliged to choose, to reside in tax houses. In 2018, according to the latest known official data, the rate of occupation of the legal houses already exceeded the 93% and the same is to say that they were filled. It is clear that the offer of legalized houses is insufficient for the legal demand and it is precisely in this context that the question of
The Deputy.
I will finish, Mr. President. A society that does not respect its elderly does not only demonstrate ingratidity, it renounces its own roots.
I'm looking forward to this, but I'm looking forward to this, I'm looking forward to this, I'm looking forward to this, I'm looking forward to this, I'm looking forward to this.
Deputies: At the end of this debate, I wanted to say that the Parliament could not have chosen a better date to discuss a topic so important and that both says to our elderly as the International Day of the Elderly. We give a sign, but, more than that, the PSD brought concrete measures to solve the problems of the elderly who find themselves in homes in irregular or illegal situation.
I wanted to highlight the seriousness of the Parliament, or some parties in this Parliament, who managed to make a debate very seriously on a very important topic. It is to highlight, again, the sensitivity and size of this topic. The PS presented the debate saying to be very concerned with the elderly. Deputy, I can’t realize or understand how it’s that the PS doesn’t be ashamed for the way it has treated the elderly during this pandemic. Aplauses of the PSD. Deputy, are the bridges of rapid intervention. Deputy. Mr. Minister came to announce to the Parliament 400 professionals and, in reality, we have 339 employees available, but, pass me, the nurses and the doctors are working at the distance.
This was the promise and it was what the Socialist Party wanted to bring to give security to the homes and the elderly who are there. Continuing, I wanted to highlight the importance of this debate and the elderly to the PSD Parliamentary Group. We are available, as we always were, to discuss their causes and we are worried. I wanted also to highlight the role of all the employees of social solidarity institutions, both of the legal and illegal homes. Mr. Minister says that he gave equal treatment to one and the other, but who gave this treatment was who gave the body and face to treat and take care of those people, at a time when the country didn't know all this and in which many of the decisions that the Socialist Party should have been taken were taken through directives, of orders, but in the reality, they reduced much to the PSD.
I want to conclude, Mr.
To conclude, Mr. President, I will say that we want to be part of the solution and we hope that tomorrow the Parliament will have the ability to unite in a matter as important as this and that will give a positive sign to all our elderly.
We conclude, thus, the discussion of the Resolution No. 532/XIV/1.a (PSD). Deputy Adão Silva, who is in motion in the Hall, because today is his birthday, a happy date. Deputy. General applause. We now enter the third point of the work order, with the joint discussion, in general, of the Law No. 484/XIV/1.a (BE) — Creates a maximum threshold for the value of the propinas of the 2nd and 3rd cycles of studies and postgraduations in public higher education, 492/XIV/1.a (PCP) — Elimination of the propinas in public higher education and 497/XIV/1.a (PAN) — Limit the change of the value of the higher technical courses of the 2nd and 3rd cycles of public higher education.
Deputies are also the Master's offer of the International Institute of Politecnico and the Institute of Politecnico and the Institute of Politecnico and the Institute of Politecnico and the Institute of Politecnico and the Institute of Politecnico and the Institute of Politecnico and the Institute of Politecnico and the Institute of Politecnico and the Institute of Politecnico and the Institute of Politecnico and the Institute of Politecnico and the Institute of Politecnico and the Institute of Politecnico and the Institute of Politecnico and the Institute of Politecnico and the Institute of Politecnico and the Institute of Politecnico and the Institute of Politecnico and the Institute of Politecnico and the Institute of Politecnico and the Institute of Politecnico and the Institute of Politecnico and the Institute of Politecnico and the Institute of Politecnico and the Institute of Politecnico.
very well!
The choice, today, is to avoid a landscape like the one that lives in the United States, for example, where the debt that students contracted in loans to pay their propines rises to 1 billion and 600 billion dollars. We could even, as a joke, ask if who wants to study can sell the house or the car. Most likely, these students don’t even have a house or car they can sell to pay their studies. We are today facing a problem that is political, social and economic, but it’s also constitutional. We need to trave the abuse.
To present the legislative initiative of the PCP, have the word to Mr. Deputy Alma Rivera.
There is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there
To present the legislative initiative of the PAN, you have the word to Mr. Deputy Bebiana Cunha.
Deputies: It is fundamental to guarantee the higher education of the higher education of the higher education of the higher education of the higher education of the higher education of the higher education of the higher education of the higher education of the higher education of the higher education of the higher education of the higher education of the higher education of the higher education of the higher education of the higher education of the higher education of the higher education of the higher education of the higher education of the higher education of the higher education of the higher education of the higher education of the higher education of the higher education.
Mr. Deputy, please conclude.
It is a matter of justice, of equality, of transparency and of real opportunity for all and any student and therefore we leave here the challenge to the remaining parliamentary groups so that they can, of course, follow this issue.
For an intervention, on behalf of the CDS, have the word to Mr. Deputy Ana Rita Bessa.
Deputies: all the discourses are always based on two ideas: on the one hand, the principle of free teaching is precisely on the other hand, the principle of free teaching is precisely on the other hand, the principle of free teaching is precisely on the other hand, the principle of free teaching is precisely on the other hand, the principle of free teaching is precisely on the other hand, the principle of free teaching is precisely on the other hand, the principle of free teaching is precisely on the other hand, the principle of free teaching is precisely on the other hand, the principle of free teaching is precisely on the other hand, the principle of free teaching is precisely on the other hand.
For an intervention on behalf of the Ecologist Party “The Greens”, you have the word to Mr. Deputy Mariana Silva.
Deputies: All the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic may specifically determine that the criterion that the state proposes the progress is not proposed by the proposes the progress is not proposed by the proposes by the proposes by the proposes by the proposes by the proposes by the proposes by the proposes by the proposes by the proposes by the proposes by the proposes by the proposes by the proposes by the proposes by the proposes by the proposes by the proposes by the proposes by the proposes by the proposes by the proposes by the proposes by the proposes by the proposes by the proposes by the proposes by the proposes by the proposes by the proposes by the proposes by the proposes by the proposes by the proposes by the proposes by the proposes by the proposes.
Deputies, at this time, the table no longer registers and therefore, if there are no more interventions, we will pass to closure.
Mr. President, if I allow, I would like to make an intervention.
Please, Mr. Deputy Alexandra Tavares de Melo.
Deputies: The draft law presented today calls us for the discussion of a vital topic for the development of our country, which is the access and frequency of the different cycles of study and their propinas. For this discussion we bring some data that we cannot forget. The propinas, whether they refer to the bachelor's, the master's or the doctor's, are frameworked in the context of a macro system. It has already been said here, and we recall again, that in 2015, the propina for the bachelor's was 1063 € and, today, it is 697 €. In five years, this propina was reduced by about 400 €. This value cannot be scamated.
This path, this reduction was a path that the Socialist Party made with the parties on its left and corresponds to a 35% decrease of the value, this decrease which, as it is perceived, relieved the expenditure of the families very significantly.
It is true! protest of the deputy of BE Mariana Mortágua.
We are also proud that, for the second time in a row, we have established a legislature contract that guarantees the stable funding of higher education. We are proud that there are a large number of proposals that have to be consolidated and that will guarantee an unprecedented value to this sector of society: we have more scholarships and higher scholarships and we have, for the first time in this academic year, the minimum value of the scholarships above the value of the propina, impacting measure in the budget of our families. Aplauses of the PS. Deputies: The Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party defends the access and frequency of higher education in a democratized way, but we remember that there are a large number of proposals that have to be consolidated and that will ensure an unprecedented value to this sector
Thank you very much, Mr. Deputy Alexandra Tavares de Moura, and I apologize for my misconduct, recently, in your name.
Mr. President, I think we all share the concern in ensuring that all students have access to higher education and higher education in order to be able to pursue their lives and have the best possible conditions. That’s why there is school social action and that’s why, over the past 30 years, it has in fact improved and allowed access to much more people. We also know that many of us, over the past years, have come to this Chamber to discuss this issue, trying to find the best solutions for students. Deputies, this is the time to clarify what we want to say to students. The PCP comes here to defend the end of the propinas; the PSD has never been in favour of the end of the propinas.
We already know it!
The Block has also already defended the end of the propins; the Socialist Party is in favour of the end of the propins in the election campaign, but then, when it comes here inside, it is sitting and silent.
That is a lie!
Several Deputies of the Socialist Party are always against the propins, they are against everything that can make up the propins, they are against the existence of the propins, ideologically, but then they arrive to the Assembly of the Republic and lose the pio, they remain silent. The Left Block and the PCP are for the end of the propins, except when they are negotiating the State Budget, i.e., when they arrive to the debate of the State Budget and to the negotiation with the Socialist Party, the end of the propins is no longer a priority, it is for the draft resolution.
be ashamed!
... and presents projects that are all to be deceived by the PS residence. It is that the time that protesters are to be deceived by the PS residence. It is that the time that protesters are to be deceived by the PS residence. It is that the time that protesters are to be deceived by the PS residence. It is that the time that protesters are to be deceived by the PS residence. It is that the time that protesters are to be deceived by the PS residence. It is that the time that protesters are to be deceived by the PS residence. It is that the time that protesters are to be deceived by the PS residence. It is that the time that protesters are to be deceived by the PS residence. It is that the time that protesters are to be deceived by the PS residence
He has the word, for an intervention, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the PCP, Mr. Deputy Alma Rivera.
Deputies: First of all, I wanted to clarify that what the Constitution, that the CDS so abominates,...
“That’s so bad!” – Mr. Deputy, have a judgment!
... says that all degrees of teaching are progressively free. Therefore, it is an interpretation, at least, tendential. In the rest, the end of the propinas is not a single Portuguese idea or only of the PCP. I remember that Austria, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, Germany, Greece, Norway, Sweden — and we could continue — have no propinas.
How much do you pay for teachers?
You are concerned about the financing for the institutions, which is something that concerns us too, that’s why our project predicts the transfer of that value to the institutions. Do you know how much it costs, per year, the payment of the propins? It’s 300 million! So why are you not troubled with the fact that, last year, the Portuguese state has forgiven, in tax boards, 10 times that value?!
You have to talk to the government!
It was 3.2 billion euros!
Mr. Deputy, please conclude.
In fact, this discussion is not new, because it’s not new the school leaving, they’re not new all the students who, throughout history, have left out because they don’t have money, and the historic moment, the moment of truth will be tomorrow, when the PCP’s bill is voted.
It is voting in the budget.
Deputy Luís Monteiro.
Deputies: In this closing of the debate on the projects related to the propinas, I would like to leave some clarifications about what has been said. First, the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic is very clear: not only the mandatory degrees of teaching should be free, they are all degrees of teaching.
It says “tendencially”, to start... This word is no longer possible...
Deputies are proposing — but don’t, because they’re shameful — that any high school student, for example, of a master’s cost of €32,000, has access to a minimum scholarship of €32,000, pay for social action services?
Of course not!
What is that master?
They are saying...
What is that master?
The Deputy.
But what is?
Therefore, the main sin of the right is to assume whenever, as a response to the question of the propines, they want more social action. But they will have to say if, for the masters that cost 10 000 € or 30 000 €, they will give a minimum scholarship of 10 000 € or 30 000 € to students.
You did not hear what I said!
No one responds to that!
No, no, I talked about it!
But we understand that it’s a complicated topic for the CDS and for the PSD. About subfinancing, it’s interesting to see that one of the universities that presents a accounting report with quite budget margins is just the one that practices the value of the highest propins. Therefore, the problem is not the subfinancing, the problem is the abuse of what should be the free teaching and the vision that part of the reitories have today about their mission as public universities, which are not fulfilling — I repeat, that are not fulfilling. Deputies, it’s not worth hiding in the logic of strong social action,...
But what to hide? I don’t hide anything!
... because the end of the propins fails and the strong social action fails. It is even a teaching for the elites, with which the Block wants to end.
Parliamentarians, we go to the fourth point, and last, of our work afternoon.We will evaluate, together, in general, the Bill No. 18/XIV/1.a (PCP) — Improves the rules of allocation and changes the duration and amounts of unemployment and social unemployment subsidy, 491/XIV/1.a (PAN) — Increases the guarantees of the beneficiaries of unemployment benefits within the framework of the rules relating to professional training, amending the Law Decree No. 220/2006, of 3 November and 495/XIV/1.a (BE) — Extends and improves the conditions of access and the periods of grant of unemployment and social unemployment subsidy.
For the purposes of this Agreement of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament
I want to conclude.
With these changes, the PCP makes a significant contribution to improving this important mechanism of social protection and to strengthen this fundamental right of workers.
by Nelson Silva.
I am the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is
by José Soeiro.
For this reason, it is important to note that there is a high level of protection, and that there is a high level of protection, and that there is a high level of protection, and that there is a high level of protection, and that there is a high level of protection, and that there is a high level of protection, and that there is a high level of protection, and that there is a high level of protection, and that there is a high level of protection, and that there is a high level of protection.
President José Luís Ferreira.
If the number of unemployment is not adequately addressed to the problems that are already concerned before the pandemic crisis, now, if the number of unemployment is not adequately addressed before the pandemic crisis, then, if the number of unemployment is not adequately addressed before the pandemic crisis, then, if the number of unemployment is not adequately addressed before the pandemic crisis, then, if the number of unemployment is not adequately addressed before the pandemic crisis, then, if the number of unemployment is not adequately addressed before the number of unemployment is not adequately addressed before the number of unemployment is not adequately addressed before the number of unemployment is not adequately addressed.
For an intervention, on behalf of the Socialist Party, has the word to Mr. Deputy Joaquina Matos.
For the purposes of this Regulation, the European Parliament and the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of
The next intervention belongs to Mr. Deputy Sandra Pereira, of the PSD.
Mr. President, a few days after we get to know the text of the government’s vital budget for 2021, we are discussing the unemployment subsidy and its conditions of access and assignment. First, it is worth to say that the PSD Parliamentary Group is listed a set of concrete proposals of support to the families, including the reduction of the period of guarantee to the subsidiary of unemployment and the reduction of the period of guarantee to the subsidiary of the government’s social emergency program, the COVID-19, which covers a set of proposals and measures that are not covered by the government’s vital budget for 2021, we are discussing their unemployment subsidy and their economic conditions for the government’s economic situation, the government’s economic situation, the government’s economic situation, the government’s economic situation, the government’
very well!
Deputies, a short answer that can do nothing to mitigate the future co-working effects on the economy and on the work. Deputies, it is our belief that this discussion will never be complete if, along with this period of uncertainty, no measures that guarantee the employmentability of the workers, active measures of employment and professional training adequate to the needs of the companies, as the PAN here proposed, measures that avoid the dismissal, the closure of the companies and the destruction of the workplaces can be avoided by this group of workplaces and the destruction of the workplaces. Deputies, we believe that workers, in addition to valuing the unemployment subsidy, have, in this period of uncertainty, a great concern with the maintenance of their jobs, in the form of the power to give continuity to
I want to conclude, Mr.
I’m going to end, Mr. President. Deputies, instead of taking care of treatment, we should have, above all, the concern of preventing disease, preventing unemployment.
I think it’s a good thing to do, but I think it’s a good thing to do.
What is implicit in these proposals is that this is the new thing to say that this is the new thing to say that the new thing to say that the new thing to say that the new thing to say that the new thing to say that the new thing to say that the new thing to say that the new thing to say that the new thing to say that the new thing to say that the new thing to say that the new thing to say that the new thing to say that the new thing to say that the new thing to say that the new thing to say that the new thing to say that the new thing to say that the new thing to say that the new thing to say that the new thing to say that the new thing to say that the new thing to say that the new thing to say that the new thing to say that the new thing to say that the new thing to say that the new thing to say that the new thing to say that the new thing to
The Deputy.
I’m going to finish, Mr. President. What happens is that — probably not by coincidence — the parties that now present these proposals, when the CDS presented similar proposals, flooded them. Therefore, we’ll have the opportunity, in the State Budget, to discuss many of these matters. We realize that they are presented now only to mark ground, the serious discussion will be made in the Budget and there we will be able to see what each party presents and what the coherence of its parliamentary groups. Mr. President, thank you very much for tolerance.
by José Soeiro.
Deputies, start by making a comment on this last intervention: we voted the proposals for the reduction of the warranty period of unemployment subsidy and if these proposals were not approved was because, at the last minute, the PS and the PSD made an agreement to limit the scope of this reduction. Mr. Deputy of the PSD talked about the prevention of unemployment and we are agreeing. That is why we propose that the dismissals are prohibited in with profits and that the dismissals are prohibited in that receive public support for the maintenance of employment. We will see what the PSD will do about it and, now, also about the value of the dismissals in the unemployment that have made the dismissal the most easy and the most bargain. Mr. Deputy of the PSD is prohibited. Mr.
And that is!
... what benefits for the fight against poverty remain at a value of €150 below the poverty threshold, keeping people in poverty, even those who get to the benefits? is not an entrance to the principle of contributivity I discount for the unemployment benefits for the value of my salary and then receive as if my unemployment benefits were a poverty fighting benefits and not a contributive benefits?
I want to conclude.
This ends with: on sustainability, Mr. Deputy, will always count on the Left Block so that there are no forgiveness regarding the payment of the TSU (single social tax) and to diversify the sources of social security financing.
This is the end of the meeting, with Mr. Diana Ferreira speaking.
Deputies: I would like to start by saying that, from the most diverse interventions, we record that there are no objections to the proposals that the PCP brought today to the discussion, which also means that, without any objections, there are all the conditions for this document to come into force with the State Budget and can enter into force with the Budget, as, by the other hand, it is proposed, Mr. Deputies Sandra Pereira, of the PSD, in the same draft law that it is necessary that this entry into force does not resolve the question that Mr. Deputies here raised on the discussion at the head of the State Budget. We can perfectly do this discussion and voting in the specialty and this initiative, these proposals, enter into force with the State Budget. I still want to put some observations. it is to be proposed, Mr. Deputies is to be
It does not resolve!
... that they have no social protection and that they can have better conditions of social protection with the proposals that the PCP here brought, today, the discussion. Therefore, we don't delay the solution of the problem. We have the opportunity to solve it at this moment. Let's take this decision in our hands so that, effectively, we can guarantee already, in the immediate, more social protection, better conditions of social protection for the workers of our country. This is the commitment that the PCP here brings. Let's see how the votes will take place tomorrow.
Deputies, then ends the last point of our order on the side of the Union/XIV debate on the 5th of November, and on the side of the Union/XIV debate on the 5th of November, on the side of the Union/XIV debate on the 5th of November, on the side of the Union/XIV debate on the 5th of November, on the side of the Union/XIV debate on the 5th of November, on the side of the Union/XIV debate on the 5th of November, on the side of the Union/XIV debate on the 5th of November, on the side of the Union/XIV debate on the 5th of November, on the side of the Union/XIV debate on the 5th of November, on the side of the Union/XIV debate on the 5th of November, on the side of the Union/XIV debate on the 5th
You have the word to Mrs. Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha to proceed to the reading of the file.
Deputies, gave entry to the table, and were admitted, the draft resolution no. 679/XIV/2.a (Commission of Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees) — Proposes the conduct of a referendum on the (des)penalization of death on request and the draft law no. 547/XIV/2.a (PS), 548/XIV/2.a (PS), 549/XIV/2.a (PS), 550/XIV/2.a (No registered Deputy Cristina Rodrigues), 551/XIV/2.a (BE) and 552/XIV/2.a (PCP).
We will then start our work with the reapreciation of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No. 57/XIV — Ninth amendment to Law No. 37/81, of 3 October, which approves the Law of Nationality.
This is not the case, but it is not the case, it is not the case, it is not the case, it is not the case, it is not the case, it is not the case, it is not the case, it is not the case, it is not the case, it is not the case, it is not the case, it is not the case, it is not the case, it is not the case, it is not the case, it is not the case, it is not the case, it is not the case, it is not the case, it is not the case, it is not the case, it is not the case, it is not the case.
Deputy Nelson Silva.
Today, due to a veto proposal by the President that the major the president we are the introduction of the proposals that the president of the Republic, that we are not the proposal that the president of the Republic, that we are not the proposal that the president of the Republic, that we are not the proposal that the President of the Republic, that we are not the proposal that the President of the Republic, that we are not the proposal that the President of the Republic, that we are not the proposal that the President of the Republic, that we are not the proposal that the President of the Republic, that we are not the proposal that the President of the Republic, that we are not the proposal that the President of the Republic, that we are not the proposal that the President of the Republic, that we are not the proposal that the President of the Republic, that we are not the proposal that the President of
President José Luís Ferreira of the Greens.
Deputies: It is, in our view, a reminder of a decision, or better, of a veto, which incides on a very specific matter of the nationality of the nationality of the nationality of the nationality of the nationality of the nationality of the nationality of the nationality of the nationality of the nationality of the nationality of the nationality of the nationality of the nationality of the nationality of the nationality of the nationality of the nationality of the nationality of the nationality of the nationality of the nationality of the nationality of the nationality of the nationality of the nationality of the nationality of the nationality of the nationality of the nationality of the nationality.
António Filipe, member of the Parliamentary Group of the PCP.
There is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there
The Deputy.
I will conclude immediately, Mr. President. It is essential a deepening of the principle of jus soli, which will be very important for many children who will be born in Portugal and who deserve to have the Portuguese nationality.
Member of the Liberal Initiative, João Cotrim de Figueiredo.
Deputies: We return today to discuss here the Law of Nationality. Mr. President of the Republic decided to veto the diploma, invoking objections, some unclear, and considering discriminatory some provisions that already consisted of the original draft of the law and that, so far, no one contested. As we stated in the initial debate on this diploma, the principle position of the Liberal Initiative is that whenever someone, according to the law, opt to demand the Portuguese nationality is, implicitly, to recognize the advantages of being Portuguese, eventually the advantages of material nature, affective or other.
The Deputy.
I will conclude, Mr. President. Being Portuguese is much more than a matter of blood and it is not just a matter of land. Being Portuguese is, also today, much more than the country that is the Portuguese language, of which he spoke Fernando Pessoa, that genius Portuguese who spent so many years outside of Portugal.
In addition to this, it is important to note that, if you are a member of the Board of Directors, the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board.
Deputies: We are here, again, to discuss the changes to the Law of Nationalism, one of the fundamental laws of our legal system. We are talking about the law that establishes and determines who can be Portuguese, who has political rights exclusive to the nationals and finally who we will have as Portuguese citizen in the future. Therefore, our nationality is something that we must be very proud, it is something that we must appreciate and it is not something that should offer- to the disbarate, as if a promotional campaign is dealt with.
Despite some specific changes — for example, those that the PSD promoted in relation to the foreign spouses of Portuguese, or those promoted by other parties in relation to the grandchildren of Portuguese, which we voted for and which are positive — the PSD cannot, in consciousness, be favorable to a legislation that, in its entirety, treats a child of foreign born in our territory much better than the Portuguese, the spouses of Portuguese and the grandchildren of Portuguese that we have spread around the world.
That is that!
To them, from the Assembly of the Republic of Portugal, and on behalf of the PSD, I send a special greeting.
very well!
It is a matter that comes from the understanding that it is politically unfair, or of discriminatory nature, the attribution of a disadvantage of treatment in attribute to the foreign spouse in being a national law without children or that has children in the national that are not in common, by favouring that the foreign spouse in favour of a foreign spouse in favour of a foreign spouse in favour of a foreign spouse in favour of a foreign spouse in favour of a foreign spouse in favour of a foreign spouse in favour of a foreign spouse in favour of a foreign spouse in favour of a foreign spouse.
I remember that, until 2018, they were required five years of legal residence. In 2018, they passed to be required two years and legal residence. Now, the left united, as it is a habit, and comes to change this requirement for a year, serving any residence, whether legal or illegal. In consciousness, we can’t agree with this path. In everything that depends on the PSD bank, we’ll continue to pugnar so that Portugal will never be an occasion maternity.
It has the word, for an intervention, Mr. Deputy Beatriz Gomes Dias, of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Bloc.
As a result of this, it is necessary to ensure that you have the right to obtain the right to obtain the right to obtain the right to obtain the right to obtain the right to obtain the right to obtain the right to obtain the right to obtain the right to obtain the right.
Member Telmo Correia, of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group.
I would say that, in any country and in any parliament, there is no matter more important than that of nationality, that is what, in the background, it is what, it is what, it is what, it is what, it is what, it is what, it is what, it is what, it is what, it is what, it is what, it is what, it is what.
Deputy André Ventura, from Chega. Mr. André Ventura (CH):  Mr. President, can be said that this Law of Nationality has good things and original things, but those that are good are not original and those that are original are worse than good. Protests of the PS and the BE. In fact, we are faced with a norm and faced with a veto attributed to the President of the Republic made for a single reason: by tacticism, since it was unlikely to give you a sign to the outside, but not a sign to the Socialist Party. Another truth has to be said, also: the Socialist Party cede to the extreme-left in the Law of Nationality. Just that the Portuguese know, today, that it is no longer distinguished between legal residence and illegal residence to perceive that it is so good to be nationally attrib
Mr. André Ventura (CH):  I’m going to finish, Mr. President. tomorrow, when we look at this Law of Nationalism, we’ll be able to say many things, but it’s not of humanism that we’ll talk: it’s of a nationality that has forgotten what it is to be a national of a country.
We arrived at the end of this first point of our agenda.
Mr President, I ask for the word.
The Deputy Joacine Katar Moreira invokes the possibility that the Regiment gives you a 10-minute intervention for each legislative session, but I think that this does not happen in this context, in which there is a very advanced issue of national relationship and in which the intervention of the Deputy is a major issue of nationality that a major issue of nationality that a major issue of nationality that a major issue of nationality that a major issue of nationality that a majority of nationality that a majority of nationality that a majority of nationality that a majority of nationality that a majority of nationality that a majority of nationality that a majority of nationality that a majority of nationality that a majority of nationality that a majority of nationality that a majority of nationality that a majority of nationality that a majority of nationality that a majority
Mr. Joacine Katar Moreira (N insc. ):  What are the benefits for the State of the exclusion of young black born in Portugal between 1981 and 2006, who, until today, continue without access to citizenship? We know the impact that the lack of recognition of citizenship has on their lives, on their expectations and on the enormous difficulties they have of social insertion. I would also like to mention that I see no difference in attributing citizenship to a child who has a father or a mother who find themselves in Portugal for 1 year or giving him the citizenship at the time that this individual is in the Portuguese soil.
Mr. Joacine Katar Moreira (No insc. ):  Citizenship is not an element that can be decreed in terms of legislation.
Mr. Joacine Katar Moreira (No insc. ): There are many young people who do not have nationality, but who still feel the elements of the national tissue.
When there are these requests, about the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law.
I think it’s a good thing to do, but I think it’s a good thing to do.
Deputies: We would like to thank Mr. President of your Republic — we can say that truly «accepted and vetoed» — for more this opportunity to emphasize the importance of the autonomy of the Azores Autonomous Region — the decree that we now again discuss is, without a doubt, a very important step in the management of the Azores Sea. This sea that so emotionally means for the Azores, but that it takes a long time to realize that all of its economic and development potential is not confunded in the region. It is clear that the management of the Azores is not to be decided by the revelation of the Azores, on the contrary it is the Azores who have to take a predominant role in the definition of the policy of management of the Azores Sea. This decree is also so obvious that it is planned in the Politico-Administrative
It is the time of the Parliamentary Group of the PS Deputy João Azevedo Castro.
For the purposes of this Agreement of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament
Member of the European Parliament, João Dias.
Deputies. at this time, we are reapreciating the Parliament proposals that the Parliament itself that the Parliament itself that the Parliament itself that the Parliament itself that the Parliament itself that the Parliament itself that the Parliament itself that the Parliament itself that the Parliament itself that the Parliament itself that the Parliament itself that the Parliament itself that the Parliament itself that the Parliament itself that the Parliament itself that the Parliament itself that the Parliament itself that the Parliament itself that the Parliament itself that the Parliament itself that the Parliament itself that the Parliament itself that the Parliament itself that the Parliament itself that the Parliament itself that the Parliament itself that the Parliament itself that the Parliament itself that the Parliament itself that the Par
For an intervention, you have the word to Mr. Deputy Inês of Sousa Real, of the PAN.
Deputies: In the debate about the preservation of the preservation of the preservation of the preservation of the preservation of the preservation of the preservation of the preservation of the preservation of the preservation of the preservation of the preservation of the preservation of the preservation of the preservation of the preservation of the preservation of the preservation of the preservation of the preservation of the preservation of the preservation of the preservation of the preservation of the preservation of the preservation of the preservation of the preservation of the preservation of the preservation of the preservation of the preservation of the preservation of the preservation of the preservation of the preservation of the preservation of the preservation of
Deputy André Ventura, from Chega.
Mr. President, this rule has the peculiarity of several parties and several parliamentary groups have attracted attention to the gross unconstitutionality it represented, whereas this law still makes possible the political and non-legal verification. Deputy? Why will they vote against this rule. Members of the Socialist Party will vote against, because they know that it is grossly unconstitutional what here brings today. I will give you an example — and you don’t have to think too much — that is the fact that the so-called matters of sovereign interest are not properly characterized in this diploma.
It is not true!
Deputy! Don't say that it's not true, because it's. The said matter of sovereignty are not characterized here, which makes the management of the central state, beyond the 200 miles, merely residual. It's grossly unconstitutional, because it makes the central state in a merely artistic in management beyond the 200 miles. Protests of the Deputy of the PS Carlos Pereira. I tell you more: it will weaken the position of Portugal in the United Nations, in the negotiation of the maritime space and, more seriously, in the fishing quotas in the matter of negotiation with the European Union. Therefore, this law is more serious than it seems and is much worse than it actually presents. It's a law that will destroy the negotiation capacity of Portugal and in a norm that this Constitutional Court, if any
The Deputy.
I’m going to finish, Mr. President. Therefore, let’s see how many Deputies of the Socialist Party will vote for this norm, which has only one name: unconstitutional.
Deputy Ricardo Vicente, of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Bloc.
Deputies and Mr. Deputies: The population of the Azores well demonstrated their dissatisfaction with the lack of autonomy of the region and with the limitations of the Basic Law of the Policy of Order and Maritime Space Management. It is good to remember that this law, which amputed the democracy of the Autonomous Region of the Azores and subaltered the regional administration, was created by the Government of PSD and CDS, but its approval also counted with the favorable vote of the Socialist Party.
very well!
The Bloc of Left considers that the own government bodies should have an active role in the management of the maritime space adjacent to the archipelago of the Azores and Madeira and that, therefore, it is urgent to empower the local populations to decide and influence the decisions on their own territory. This need was well visible with the two legislative initiatives approved in the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, one of which left the initiative of the Bloc of Left. The Bloc thus considers that the proposal of amendment to the law today in debate represents an advance towards the initial situation, even considering the changes identified by the President of the Republic, which refused to promote the first proposal of amendment to their own territory. But we can not leave that the legislative proposal of the
Exactly!
Although the Minister of the Sea defends the application of a 20-year moratorium to deep sea mining, it seems that he is alone in this proposal. The Minister of the Environment, the Government and the Socialist Party take the side, a situation that we can only consider regrettable. It is also regrettable that this issue has not been concerned by the President of the Republic, in his analysis. Instead of delivering the local resources to the voracity of the market and finance, we need public policies for an economy based on knowledge, scientific research and technological development, with participative and democratic foundations, which respond to the interests of the populations.
Member Telmo Correia, of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group.
Mr. President, at first point reserve the conservatory, the first time the conservatory, the second time the conservatory, the second time the conservatory, the second time the conservatory, the second time the conservatory, the second time the conservatory, the second time the conservatory, the second time the conservatory, the second time the conservatory, the second time the conservatory, the second time the conservatory, the second time the conservatory, the second time the conservatory, the second time the conservatory, the second time the conservatory, the second time the conservatory, the second time the conservatory, the second time the conservatory, the second time the conservatory, the second time the conservatory, the second time the conservatory, the second time the conservatory, the second time the conservatory,
We pass to the third point of the agenda, with the joint discussion of the Projects of Resolution No. 641/XIV/2.a (CDS-PP) — Adoption of measures for the regular functioning of primary health care, 248/XIV/1.a (PAN) — Guaranteeing a National Quality Health Service, 630/XIV/2.a (PCP) — Measures for the recovery of activity in primary health care and 656/XIV/2.a (BE) — Recovery and strengthening of primary health care activity.
There are several different types of foods that can be found in this category: foodstuffs, foodstuffs, foodstuffs, foodstuffs, foodstuffs, foodstuffs, foodstuffs, foodstuffs, foodstuffs, foodstuffs, foodstuffs, foodstuffs, foodstuffs, foodstuffs, foodstuffs, foodstuffs, foodstuffs, foodstuffs, foodstuffs, foodstuffs, foodstuffs, foodstuffs, foodstuffs, foodstuffs, foodstuffs and other foodstuffs.
For an intervention, has the word to Mr. Deputy Bebiana Cunha, of the Parliamentary Group of the PAN.
Deputies: from the beginning of the pivotal crisis, in the meantime, it is necessary to increase the need for this response from the public health networks, in the meantime, it is necessary to increase the need for this response from the public health networks. in the meantime, it is necessary to increase the need for this response from the public health networks. in the meantime, it is necessary to increase the need for this response from the public health networks. in the meantime, it is necessary to increase the need for this response from the public health networks. in the meantime, it is necessary to increase the need for this response from the public health networks. in the meantime, it is necessary to increase the need for this response from the public health networks. in the meantime, it is necessary to increase the need for this response from the public health networks.
For an intervention, the Parliamentary Group of the PCP has the word to Mr. Deputy Paula Santos.
Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies: Deputies.
You have to conclude.
We reaffirm that, in fact, the strengthening of the National Health Service and the strengthening of health care are essential to ensuring all users access to health care. And taking care of the SNS is taking care of people, it is taking care of users, it is ensuring the right to health.
Member of the Parliament, Moisés Ferreira.
For example, if you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company, you are a member of the company.
For an intervention, has the word Mr. Deputy Susana Correia, of the Parliamentary Group of the PS.
Deputies: Today, we are presented in the first place, we are presented in the first place, we are presented in the second place, we are presented in the second place, we are presented in the second place, we are presented in the second place, we are presented in the second place, we are presented in the second place, we are presented in the second place, we are presented in the second place, we are presented in the second place, we are presented in the second place, we are presented in the second place, we are presented in the second place, we are presented in the second place, we are presented in the second place, we are presented in the second place, we are presented in the second place, we are presented in the second place, we are presented in the second place, we are presented in the second place.
This is the first time!
It is the first time that we see this number. I also refer to an increasing laboratory response and the implementation of the National Health Plan for Autumn-Winter 2020-2021, with a triple concern: the COVID patients, the non-COVID patients and the literacy and communication. Finally, regarding the third point of my intervention, the Socialist Party’s commitment is clear and unquestionable and is in the Government Program and the Grand Options of the Plan for 2021-2023: improving the National Health Service’s response to the needs of citizens and making it more resilient, strengthening the primary health care and recovering the assistencial activity in a safe way. It is our commitment to continue on the front line in implementation of measures, in the follow-up and in the results of the PS’s commitment is clear and unquestionable and
He has the word, for an intervention, on behalf of the Greens, Mr. Deputy Mariana Silva.
Deputies: The projects that today we discuss reveal the difficulty with which we all face when we face the numerous complaints of problems in accessing primary health care. It is not understood how the hospitals have adapted to the recognized and known difficulties, and well, to receive the patients with COVID, being proceeding to the adaptations to receive all the other users, with the most varied diseases, and this adaptation is not yet occurred in the primary health centers throughout the country. The fight to COVID-19 came to bring enhanced challenges to the SNS, which has responded to them positively, despite the difficulties recognized and known. This is the time to provide all the health centers with human resources, technical and financial services that are guaranteed to the population to be responding. It is immediately necessary to be adapted to the family
If they have!
... who accompanies them, who talks, who knows their needs and guides them. In addition to health care, they are also the friend, the counselor, the support in the bad hours. They are urgent measures and guidelines for the elderly to strengthen the means for the monitoring in the disease, in family planning, in prevention. It has never been so necessary to invest in the SNS, and this investment can never be considered expenses, should, yes, that it should not be seen as an investment for the future. It is urgent to reopen their health centers, with all the valentines, and to end with the lines to the door, with the careers in the post, with the description of the symptoms by phone or with the requests for the elderly to mark their consultations through an electronic address that they do not dominate. It is essential that the
Deputy Alberto Machado of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
Deputies: Today we discuss four initiatives, all of them recognizing the critical situation in which the National Health Service is in, aggravated by the poor management of this pandemic, by the Socialist Government, the National Health Service, the National Health Service, the National Health Service, the National Health Service, the National Health Service, the National Health Service, the National Health Service, the National Health Service, the National Health Service, the National Health Service, the National Health Service, the National Health Service, the National Health Service, the National Health Service, the National Health Service, the National Health Service, the National Health Service, the National Health Service, the National Health Service, the National Health Service, the National Health Service, the National Health Service, the National Health Service, the National Health Service, the National Health Service, the National Health Service, the National Health Service, the National Health Service, the National Health Service, the National Health Service,
Don’t support them!
... which is today well patent in the eyes of all the Portuguese. the country color of pink, here painted by the PS, doesn't fit right with the reality. Despite the patriot support of the PSD, in the first months of this health crisis, to the Socialist Government in functions,... Protest of MPs of the PS.... giving him all the political and budget management conditions so that he could implement the necessary measures to the adequacy of public services, in particular of health services, to take care of people, and of the economy, to help the companies, the Government failed. We cannot accept and cannot be silent, when, more than six months later, the Government did not know how to organize, plan and take care of what is fundamental to the Country.
The PSD does not understand how it is that, with these months of preparation, and already knowing that we walked to the winter and to a new peak of the pandemic, it was not possible to find solutions to ensure the Portuguese the access to primary health care and preparation of the Government in which it is the neural point of this sanitary crisis. They are closed health centers so attributed to the Socialist Party and are not touched, they are lines to the door, they are people who despair for being carried out, some since March, they are hard services in ruin because of the lack of doctors, nurses, administratives and auxiliaries. It is a third-world situation, result of the lack of action and preparation of the Government in which it is the neural point of this sanitary crisis. At the end of the five years of governance of the
Very well remembered!
Do you want to break four years?
In 2020, at the end of five years of socialist rule, the number of Portuguese without a family doctor is almost the same.
very well!
The Deputy!
In fact, it is far from the times when the fanfarronice of the current Prime Minister led him to say that in 2017, all Portuguese would have a family doctor attributed.
Make the accounts!
We have seen a brutal degradation of the assistant activity in the last seven months, but the patients are not healed, as that by magic, and the other diseases have not disappeared with the COVID. Protests of the PS Deputy Santinho Pacheco. In addition, it is funny to see here the Bloc de Esquerda to criticize, when he approved the successive Socialist Party Budget.
To ensure access to primary health care and hospital health care is urgent, it should already have been prepared and every day that passes is another black day for the SNS. It is the access to health care that is in question! Mr. President, facing this reality, some of today discussed initiatives suffer from as known as harmful ideological-statistical prejudice. For the PSD, it is not that way. For us, the way is that of a National Health Service that meets the Constitution, guaranteeing the entire population the access to health care, in a universal and tendingly free way; a SNS with motivated management teams and health professionals, where institutions have real autonomy of management and targeted; a SNS that has an effective system of financial incentives to the achieved professional health results.
A SNS in the pocket!
But we also believe in a health system based on three pillars: the public, the social and the private; a health system where the sense of service to the citizen and the logic of the cooperation between sectors replace the logic of the permanent confrontation, which the extreme-left so insists on promoting. In this time when the pandemic has so difficult the access of the Portuguese to health care, it is required to mobilize all the resources and capabilities existing in the health system. Therefore, we defend the contractualization of family doctors from the social and the private sector,...
Call us for doctors, that we hire!
Only so, with inclusive and mobilizing proposals, we will guarantee the access of all Portuguese to health care, in a fair and equitable way. This is the deep conviction of the Social Democratic Party!
Congratulations with Mr. Andrey Ventura.
Mr. President, we are in a caricate situation, from the point of view of health, in Portugal. We had 4 million consultations cancelled, more than half a million surgeries delayed and the government’s solution is that it will compensate for these cancellations and delays. The Socialist Party Deputies say: “Let us get the doctors, that we’ll be here to hire them!” Of course, in the last 20 years, they have been in power in 15 and did not, but now they say they’ll do it throughout the next year. But it’s better yet to see the extreme-left obcecated, as always, with the social and private sector, as if it wasn’t enough the situation that we already have in the public sector. Mr. Deputy Paulavi, or from the tribuna, there’s only three — the PSP’
And not!
When it was necessary to strengthen the SNS, when it was necessary to increase the health centers that are now closed, some of them because of lack of cleaning — I repeat, because of lack of cleaning — and when it was necessary to strengthen the primary care, the PCP there was giving the hand to the Socialist Party, in three followed budgets.
The Deputy.
I repeat, three budgets followed, without ever demanding anything more!
Don’t say lies!
Now he goes to the tribune, as if it wasn’t yesterday, as if the PS, without the PCP, had...
The Deputy.
Now, Mr. Deputy appears here, as if the PCP had been born yesterday, to say that the PS, the PSD and the CDS are some mausons that treat the health of the Portuguese badly.
I want to conclude.
It’s important to note that this is the case when the next coalitions are made in Portugal!PKK protests.
Our proposals speak for us!
We will go to the closure of this point of the agenda. for this purpose, the word has Mr. Deputy Anna Rita Bessa, of the CDS-PP.
Mr. President, they come to the conclusion of this debate years, it seems to me that what we have in common is the sharing of an enormous concern with the state of health in Portugal. But what distinguishes us — and distinguishes us frankly — is where we put the tone of this concern, either in the discourse, or in the choices. I hear the Bloc of Left and the PCP, for whom the cost of the PS is the cost of the people is the cost of the people is the cost of the people is the cost of the people is the cost of the people is the cost of the people is the cost of the people is the cost of the people is the cost of the people is the cost of the people is the cost of the people is the cost of the people is the cost of the people is the cost of the people is the cost of the people is the cost of the people
On the third point, we go to the fourth point of our work order, which consists of the joint discussion, in general, of the Bill No. 53/XIV/1.a (PAN) — Visa ensure non-discrimination in access to housing by whoever owns pet and 496/XIV/1.a (Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues) — Amend the Civil Code, guaranteeing non-discrimination in access to lease by whoever owns pet.
There is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt that there is no doubt
I asked you to finish.
What we cannot continue to allow is a clear discrimination that comes to penetrating the families and the values that paints us in the 21st century.
You have now the word to Mr. Deputy not registered Cristina Rodrigues, to present your legislative initiative.
Deputies: Today we discuss the non-discrimination in the access to lease by whoever owns companion animals, a small change that can have a great impact on the lives of people and that, including, motivated me, a few years ago, to create a public petition precisely with this goal. We cannot forget that the right to housing is a fundamental right, constitutionally consecrated, but that, unfortunately, there are situations in which families can’t find a house to live because the gentlemen don’t accept companion animals. So, I ask: what a family should do in this situation? Leaving the animals? The abandonment, in addition to cruel, is a crime. Now, if the law provides for the remaining of animals in housing, that reason it should allow the law that the law does not restrict that the law does not restrict that the house to
I think I’m going to have a lot of money.
Deputies: I greet the PAN, because, in fact, it is consistent. For the PAN, the animals are exactly equal to people, it is a matter of remembering it at every occasion and every occasion seems good. It doesn't matter if we're fighting a pandemic, or facing one of the greatest economic and social crises of ever, or to the point of failure the target with the "base" of Brussels, or to recognize that the TAP (Portuguese Air Transports) will not cost just 1200 million euros and, if it's twice, it's a fortune. In the midst of all this, the PAN always arranges a way of putting the rights of the animals in discussion. The only good thing of this PAN insistance is that it gives the Liberal Initiative the opportunity to affirm the obvious: the animals are not,
I want to conclude.
I will conclude, Mr. President. You agree to stop thinking about this: the PAN thinks that a situation in which a gentleman does not arrange his house to someone with a animal is the same thing that does not do it to a gay couple. This absurd dispense comments. It shouldn’t need to repeat this, but here it goes in the same: the animals are not equal to people and the greatest proof of love and respect for their nature is, precisely, not treating them as people.
I want to conclude.
And now, Mr. President, as in all other cases, we will leave the state out of that.
Deputy Bruno Dias, of the PCP.
Deputy: Deputy: Deputy: Deputy: Deputy: Deputy: Deputy: Deputy: Deputy: Deputy: Deputy: Deputy: Deputy: Deputy: Deputy: Deputy: Deputy: Deputy: Deputy: Deputy: Deputy: Deputy: Deputy: Deputy: Deputy: Deputy: Deputy: Deputy: Deputy: Deputy: Deputy: Deputy: Deputy: Deputy: Deputy: Deputy: Deputy: Deputy: Deputy: Deputy: Deputy: Deputy: Deputy: Deputy: Deputy: Deputy: Deputy: Deputy: Deputy: Deputy: Deputy: Deputy: Deputy: Deputy: Deputy: Deputy: Deputy: Deputy: Deputy: Deputy: Deputy: Deputy: Deputy: Deputy: Deputy: Deputy:
For an intervention, he has the word to Mr. Deputy Maria Manuel Rola, from the left side.
Deputies: Discrimination has important and negative effects on the stability of the structure and quality of life of a person or family. When a person fails to get a job or fails to rent a house immediately at departure and by discrimination, there is a serious impact. When one fails to get fairly paid work or a house with a fair income by discrimination of class, gender, ethnicity, religious belief or other, there is a financial impact that only who passes through it can, in fact, imagine. And, in the specific case of housing, discrimination and limitation of access also affects health, so in voga and so discussed these days, insofar as the access to decent housing is a determinant of health, or it is the exposure to the exposure.
very well!
Discrimination all is based, we already know, on the pre-conditioning ideas that may be available, clichés, their generalizations that predict people and their behaviors and that greatly limit the freedom of the targeted persons. Any discrimination that prevents access to basic rights, such as the right to housing, must, in fact, be condemned. In these projects that we are analyzing all of the animals today, it is intended to insert that the people with the proposals of the Civil and it is intended to insert that a type of discrimination that is not directed by the name, and we don’t want to make more judgments of value — that is attended in the attempt to arrange housing: persons and families that cohabitate with domestic animals. It seems fair to include the prevention relative to this form of discrimination in
For an intervention, he has the word to Mr. Deputy Mariana Silva, of the Ecologist Party “The Greens”.
Therefore, it is necessary to ensure that, in accordance with the provisions of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the
Take a look at the letter of the law.
Deputy Pedro Delgado Alves of the Socialist Party.
There is no such thing as to be able to do so; there is no such thing as to be able to do so; there is no such thing as to be able to do so; there is no such thing as to be able to do so; there is no such thing as to be able to do so; there is no such thing as to be able to do so; there is no such thing as to be able to do so; there is no such thing as to be able to do so; there is no such thing as to be able to do so.
Deputy Juan Gonçalves Pereira.
Deputies: Let me take the same years in this debate the long consensus that a citizen has the same that a citizen has the same that a citizen has the same that a citizen has the same that a citizen has the same that a citizen has the same that a citizen has the same that a citizen has the same that a citizen has the same that a citizen has the same that a citizen has the same that a citizen has the same that a citizen has the same that a citizen has the same that a citizen has the same.
The Deputy.
We understand that the state cannot force a property owner to rent a house to any tenant, whether he is a dog or not, whether he is a cat or not.
For a statement, Mr. Marcia Passos has the word.
Deputies: Today we analyze two legislative initiatives on two perspectives that aim to ensure that no one can be limited in their right of access to a housing by having a pet.
Well remembered!
I will try to explain: if, on the one hand, the well-being of the animals, on the other hand, these are not a direct constitutional protection, but only a reflection in the concerns of the environmental charity whose ultimate purpose is the human health, on the other hand, it is unquestionable that the evolution of the mentality is the question of the malendment, on the other hand, it is unquestionable that the evolution of the mentality is the question of the malendment, on the other hand, it is unquestionable that the legal evolution of the mentality is the question of the morality, on the other hand, it is unquestionable that the legal evolution of the mentality is the question of the morality, on the other hand, it is unquestionable that the legal evolution of the mentality, on the other hand
We are now passing to the closing phase of this point, for which I give the word to Mr. Inês de Sousa Real.
Deputies: First of all, I want to thank not only the PS as well as the PSD for the availability they have demonstrated to, at the headquarters of specialty, discuss this issue, and we think that also the Block will accompany this concern, because we find it fundamental to do it, though there are here criticisms that we cannot accompany. Deputies, it is not to put animals in the same patamar of people; we are talking about ensuring that these people are not discriminated and that they have access to housing. It is of this that we are talking and of the constitutive value that these animals have for families, along with something we have to fight, the flagel of abandonment. Deputies, we have no problem and we are grateful that we have recognized it because, effectively, we have in our policy agenda this debate and this is in nothing
I want to conclude, Mr.
I conclude already, Mr. President. Therefore, it seems clear to us that something is wrong. We welcome the will to, in the headquarters of specialty, discuss this issue because the right to housing and the right of people who have pet animals can keep them in their family aggregate are fundamental rights that must be respected.
Deputies, we concluded the following point 4 of our agenda. From point 5, to which no debate times have been attributed, constitutes the Proposal of Resolution No. 7/XIV/1.a (GOV) — Let’s then vote for the Proposal of Partnership No. 640/XIV/2.a between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and its Member States, on the one hand, and the National Law of the President of the Republic of the Republic of Armenia, on the other hand, the National Law of the President of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the
We will vote on the proposal of amendment, submitted by the IL, amendment to Article 3(1) of the Law of Nationality, constituted by Article 2 of the Decree. Submitted to the vote, was rejected, with votes against the PS, the PSD, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PEV and the CH and votes in favour of the BE, the PAN, the IL and the unregistered Deputies Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira. It was as follows: 1 — The stranger married for more than three years with a Portuguese national can acquire Portuguese nationality by means of a statement made in the constance of the marriage, without prejudice to the provisions of paragraph 4 of this article.
We will vote on the proposal for amendment of the BE, amendment to paragraph 3 of article 3 of the Law of Nationality, constituted by article 2 of the Decree. Submitted to the vote, was rejected, with votes against the PS, the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH, the IL and the Non-Registered Deputy Cristina Rodrigues and votes in favour of the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the PEV and the Non-Registered Deputy Joacine Katar Moreira.
We will vote on the proposal of amendment submitted by the IL, amendment to paragraph 3 of article 3 of the Law of Citizenship, constituted by article 2 of the Decree. Submitted to the vote, was rejected, with votes against the PS, the PSD, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PEV and the CH, votes in favour of the PAN and the IL and abstentions of the BE and the unregistered Deputies Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira. It was the following: 3 — The stranger who, at the date of the declaration, lives in union de facto for more than three years with Portuguese national can acquire the Portuguese citizenship, after action of recognition of this situation to intervene in the court, without prejudice to the provisions of the 4 and 5
We will vote the following proposal of amendment of the CD Rodrigues and the law of Joacine Katar Moreira and the votes against the PSS-PP and the PSS-PP and the PSS-PP and the PSS-PP and the PSS-PP and the PSS-PP and the PSS-PP and the PSS-PP and the PSS-PP and the PSS-PP and the PSS-PP and the PSS-PP and the PSS-PP and the PSS-PP and the PSS-PP and the PSS-PP and the PSS-PP and the PSS-PP and the PSS-PP and the PSS-PP and the PSS-PP and the PSS-PP and the PSS-PP and the PSS-PP and the PSS-PP and the PSS-PP and the PSS-PP and the PSS-
We pass, thus, to the vote, in the specialty, of the proposal, submitted by the BE, of adding a paragraph 3 to Article 9 of the Law of Nationality, constituted by Article 2 of the Decree, and consequent renumeration of the current paragraph 3 as paragraph 4. Submitted to the vote, was rejected, with votes against the PS, the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL and votes in favour of the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the PEV and the Non-Registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar More.
We pass to the vote of the proposal, submitted by the PS, adding a paragraph 3 to article 9 of the Law of Nationality, constituted by article 2 of the Decree, and consequent renumberation of the current paragraph 3 as paragraph 4. Submitted to the vote, was approved, with votes in favour of the PS, the PSD, the PCP, the PAN, the PEV and the Non-Registered Deputy Cristina Rodrigues, votes against the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL and abstentions from the BE and the Non-Registered Deputy Joacine Katar Moreira.
We vote, now, the proposal, submitted by the IL, of adding an article 2a to Decree No. 57/XIV. Submitted to the vote, was rejected, with votes against the PS, CDS-PP and CH, votes for the PSD, BE, PAN, IL and the unregistered Deputies Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the PCP and PEV.
We pass, thus, to the vote of the new Decree of Deputies of the Republic of Macedonia and the Republic of Macedonia and the Republic of Macedonia and the Republic of Macedonia and the Republic of Macedonia and the Republic of Macedonia and the Republic of Macedonia and the Republic of Macedonia and the Republic of Macedonia and the Republic of Macedonia and the Republic of Macedonia and the Republic of Macedonia and the Republic of Macedonia and the Republic of Macedonia and the Republic of Macedonia and the Republic of Macedonia and the Republic of Macedonia and the Republic of Macedonia and the Republic of Macedonia and the Republic of Macedonia.
Do you give me a license?
The Deputy.
Deputy António Ventura, not being in the Hall for the reasons that are known, also votes for.
It is clear.The services should take note of this circumstance.We will continue the votes.
Mr President, I ask for the word.
The Deputy?
Mr. President, I am to announce that I will submit a vote declaration.
Following the vote of the proposal, submitted by the Socialist Party, which amends paragraph b) of paragraph 3 of Article 31a of Law No. 17/2014, of 10 April, constituted by Article 2 of the Decree. Submitted to the vote, was approved, with votes in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the PEV, the IL, the Deputies of the PSD António Ventura, Paulo Moniz, Paulo Neves, Sara Madruga da Costa and Sérgio Marques and the Deputy not registered Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the CH, the Deputies of the PS Ana Paula Vitorino, Ascenso Simões, Alves Moreira, Jorge Magalhães, José Magalhães, Marcos Peregrino, and the Deputies of the Republic of Gambia
We pass to the vote of the proposal, submitted by the Socialist Party, amendment of point d) of paragraph 3 of article 31a of Law No. 17/2014, of 10 April, constituting article 2 of the Decree. Submitted to the vote, was approved, with votes in favour of PS, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, IL, Deputies of the PSD António Ventura, Paulo Moniz, Paulo Neves, Sara Madruga da Costa and Sérgio Marques and Deputies not registered under Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against CH, Deputies of the PS Ana Paula Vitorino, Ascenso Simões, Isabel Moreira, Jorge Lacão, José Magalhães, Marcos Perestrello, Gambario and Sérgio Pinto, Deputies of the Republic of Costa Rica and the Republic of
We vote, now, the new Decree, with the amendments that, however, have been adopted. Submitted to the vote, it was approved, with votes in favour of the PS, the PAN, the IL, the MPs of the PSD António Ventura, Paulo Moniz, Paulo Neves, Sara Madruga da Costa and Sérgio Marques and the Non-Registered Deputy Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the CH, the MPs of the PS Ana Paula Vitorino, Ascenso Simões, Bruno Aragão, Isabel Alves Moreira, Jorge Lacão, José Magalhães, Marcos Perestrello, Rosario Gambôa and Sergio Sousa Pinto, the MPs of the PSD António Lima and Costa Deputa non-Registered Cristina Rodrigues and Abstentions of the PSD, the PCP, the PCP
Mr President, I ask for the word.
The Deputy?
Mr. President, it is to inform the Board that I just submitted a vote declaration.
Member of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament.
Mr. President is also to inform the Board that I will make a vote statement on these points.
I think it’s a good thing to do, but it’s a good thing to do, it’s a good thing to do, it’s a good thing to do.
Mr. President, it is also to announce a vote declaration on behalf of the MPs elected by Madeira.
I'm not sure if you're going to get a lot of money, but I'm not sure if you're going to get a lot of money.
Deputies Ascenso Simões, Jorge Lacão, Marcos Perestrello, Pedro Bacelar de Vasconcelos, Sérgio Sousa Pinto, José Magalhães, Alexandre Quintanilha, Isabel Moreira and António Gameiro will present a vote statement.
You are registered, Mr.
Mr President, I ask for the word.
The Deputy?
Mr. President, I am to announce that I will submit a vote statement on this matter.
Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy Deputy?
It is for the same purpose.
It is the first time that we will be able to do this, we will be able to do this, we will be able to do this, we will be able to do this, we will be able to do this, we will be able to do this, we will be able to do this, we will be able to do this, we will be able to do this, we will be able to do this, we will be able to do this.
Mr President, I ask for the word.
The Deputy?
Mr. President, it is to announce that we will submit a vote statement on this matter and on this draft law.
We vote, therefore, the Proposal for a Non-Proposal for a Non-Proposal for a Non-Proposal for a Non-Proposal for a Non-Proposal for a Non-Proposal for a Non-Proposal for a Non-Proposal for a Non-Proposal for a Non-Proposal for a Non-Proposal for a Non-Proposal for a Non-Proposal for a Non-Proposal for a Non-Proposal for a Non-Proposal for a Non-Proposal for a Non-Proposal for a Non-Proposal for a Non-Proposal for a Non-Proposal for a Non-Proposal for a Non-Proposal for a Non-Proposal for a Non-Proposal for a Non-Proposal for a Non-Propos
Deputies Maria Begonha, Joana Sá Pereira, Miguel Costa Matos, Filipe Pacheco and Olavo Câmara, on the last three votes.
In this case, it is necessary to ensure that you have the right to obtain the right to obtain the right to obtain the right to obtain the right to obtain the right to obtain the right to obtain the right to obtain the right to obtain the right to obtain the right to obtain the right to obtain the right to obtain the right to obtain the right.
Mr. President, it is to announce that the PSD Parliamentary Group will submit a vote declaration regarding the last two votes.
It is not unlikely that it is not unlikely that it is unlikely that it is unlikely that it is unlikely that it is unlikely that it is unlikely that it is unlikely that it is unlikely that it is unlikely that it is unlikely that it is unlikely that it is unlikely that it is unlikely that it is unlikely that it is unlikely that it is unlikely that it is unlikely that it is unlikely that it is unlikely that it is unlikely that it is unlikely that it is unlikely that it is unlikely that it is unlikely that it is unlikely that it is unlikely that it is unlikely that it is unlikely that it is unlikely that it is unlikely that it is unlikely that it is unlik
Please make a conclusion, Mr.
As I was saying, delaying the entry into force of the law to 1 January 2021 is, clearly, allowing the nominations that are intended to be made there. And here, in fact, the PSD has to show what side it is: or it is back to the team B of the PS, and does more this favor to the Government as it did with the five-year debates, or is on the side of those who want a stronger Parliament and a Bank of Portugal also he stronger.
I think it’s a good thing to do, but I think it’s a good thing to do.
Deputies: With the evolution of democracy, there are procedures that have to be changed — it is a requirement of society. And, therefore, the Parliament cannot be insensitive to what is the debate outside this House, and in particular to the level of the impediments of the responsible of political positions. I know that, in this case, there is a block of all the left to allow and continue to allow the members of the Government to go directly to the governance of the Bank of Portugal. A few months ago, we had this debate, that at the time, it was a hot debate and accent. But then, when the time of the truth came, of course, the Socialist Party defended its lady, again not with a bengal, but with two bengal — the Bloc de Esquerda and the Communist Party of Portugal. That is the Bloc de Esquerda and the
Deputy Duarte Alves, of the PCP.
Deputies: The PCP reverses, in general, in the modifications of the final text relating to this project, in particular in what aims to prevent that leaders and people exercising high positions in the banks and in the large consultancies cannot transit directly to the Bank of Portugal, because there, yes, is the big problem of the capture of the supervisor by the sector itself that is supervised. And, already now, I would like to ask the PSD if he liked the action of Carlos Costa, who passed directly from the bank to the Bank of Portugal. But, in this final text, there is an aspect with which we cannot agree and, therefore, we also made an advocacy request, which has to do with the entry into force. This is a very important question, because it is approved by a proposal of the PSD, it is presented by the Parliament
very well!
In relation to incompatibility with public positions, our position has always been clear. We always said, from the beginning, that we consider there is no any conflict of interest between the exercise of public positions and the go to the Bank of Portugal. We consider, yes, that the greatest conflict of interest is between the sector that is regulated and the supervisor that regulates it. Here there is conflict of interest from the “rotatory doors” of the bank to the Bank of Portugal, from the great consultants to the Bank of Portugal, and there, yes, we have seen the great failure of the model of supervision, supposedly independent, that has given so many scandals, from the BES, from the BANIF, from the BPN, in which, in fact, it has been demonstrated that this model of supervision does not work. It is through a greater public control that the
For an intervention, now have the word to Mr. Deputy Cecilia Meireles, of the CDS-PP.
We understand that, in the case of the Bank of Portugal, and also in the case of other fundamental regulators, there should be a consecration of three sovereign bodies to intervene in the process of nomination, with the Government to propose, the Assembly of the Republic is questionable that the other is questionable that the President of the Republic is not questionable that the President of the Republic is not questionable that the President of the Republic is not questionable that the President of the Republic is not questionable that the President of the Republic is not questionable that the President of the Republic is not questionable that the President of the Republic is not questionable that the President of the Republic is not questionable that the President of the Republic is not questionable that the President of the Republic is not questionable that the President of the Republic is not questionable.
Please make the conclusion.
If this is not incompatible, I don't know what it would be. Deputy Pedro Delgado Alves didn't scream. Deputies take the masks when they want the apartments to be heard and because I think there is a certain health risk in it, it wasn't worse if that could be avoided.
You have the word, for an intervention, Mr. Deputy Mariana Mortágua, from the left block.
Deputies: The three Bloc has not delayed a millimeter of the proposal that the central position has been applied since the beginning of this debate. It is necessary to protect the Bank of Portugal from incompatibilities face to the private, independence face to the regulated. It is why the Bloc of Left also defends that the analysis of someone who is to the Governor of the Bank of Portugal has to be discussed in the Assembly of the Republic, which is the regulated. But we do not accept that there is an incompatibility between the five who defends the public interest and who defends the public interest of the January, which is not the process of the public interest of the January, which is not the process of the public interest of the January, which is not the process of the President of the Republic, which is not the process of the President of the Republic, which is not the process
It is the time of the Parliamentary Group of the PS. Deputy Fernando Anastácio. Deputy, being in the second row, I have to ask you for the favour to wear a mask.
Mr. President, there has not been such a procedure recently, but I agree with you.
Please apologize, please use the word.
Deputies: The Socialist Party, with a mask or without a mask, is convinced that the law relates in its positions. In addition, the demonstration of this is that, precisely after a discussion somewhat attributed, we allow, with the positions of the Socialist Party, that they do not make, in this Parliament, the laws ad hominem, the laws that shame our parliamentary regime law. In addition, the opinions that the Socialist Party presented were quite consensual that a better question was that a better question was that a better question was that a better question was that a better question was that a better question was that a better question was that a better question was that a better question was that a better question was that a better question was that a better question was that a better question was that a better question was that a better question was that a better question was that a better
I'm going to see you, I'm going to see you, I'm going to see you, I'm going to see you.
You have all the right. Deputy, as is in the second row, please wear the mask.
Mr. President, if so, will I have to do all the mask interventions from now on?
It is a rule that must apply to everyone in all circumstances.
Deputies: This process, in fact, shows many things that are really bad in the name of politics in Portugal, because what we are here to discuss, today, was already to have been discussed two months ago, before the appointment of the former Minister of Finance Mario Centeno. And don't come to me with the theory that it would be a law ad hominem, because it's not that it's happening. The left says that there are problems of promiscuity between the supervisors and supervisors that we've only seen in the date that we have agreed. But there are no more problems between the tutelors and tutelors in Portugal when they transit directly from one to another. And, if there were doubts, it's enough to see what's passed in the public statements of the former Minister of Finance, and even in the audiences that asks
by André Ventura.
Mr. President, what we are here discussing was perfectly avoidable that government step to force if we had managed to mobilize timely, with the force and the way we needed, to avoid what the PS calls “ad hominem nomination”, but we all know that we are talking about the entry of a minister directly to the Bank of Portugal, the entry of a minister that has supervised a crude operation and that now will provide clarifications that it does not work on the table of the same policy and that it does not work on the table of the same policy and that it does not work on the table of the same policy and that it does not work on the table of the same policy and that it does not work on the table of the same policy and that it does not work on the table of the same policy and that it does not work on the table of the same policy and that it does not work on the table of
Deputies, after the debate on the proposals requested by the Deputies of the Republic of Macedonia and the Council of the Republic of Macedonia and the Council of the Republic of Macedonia and the Council of the Republic of Macedonia and the Council of the Republic of Macedonia and the Council of the Republic of Macedonia and the Council of the Republic of Macedonia and the Council of the Republic of Macedonia and the Council of the Republic of Macedonia and the Council of the Republic of Macedonia and the Council of the Republic of Macedonia and the Council of the Republic of Macedonia and the Council of the Republic of Macedonia and the Council of the Republic of Macedonia.
Mr. President, I have a doubt, because Mr. President said that it was the subject of Article 27(8)(c), but I believe we voted for Article 27(3)(c).
Mr. Deputy, I am limited to reading what is in the voting script.
Mr. President, I think the script is wrong, because what was lawyer was this that I said. Pause. Deputies, having a renumeration in the final text, remains the issue resolved with the vote we recently made. We pass therefore to the vote of article 4 of the bill (advocation requested by the PAN). Submitted to the vote, was rejected, with votes against the PS and the PSD, votes for the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the PEV, the CH and the IL and abstinences of the unregistered Deputies Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira. Deputies, article 4 of the final text (advocation requested by the PCP to the Submet).
Mr. President, to make a point of order on the conduct of the work.
The Deputy.
And it’s not that we’re going to be able to do it, but we’re going to be able to do it, and we’re going to be able to do it.
For the purposes of this Regulation, the European Parliament and the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council of
Mr. President, it is to announce an oral voting statement.
It will be done at the end of the votes. deputy Sergio Sousa Pinto also asked the word. deputy?
Mr. President, it is also to announce a vote declaration, but in writing.
We pass to the vote of the assumption, by the Plenary, of the indicative votes carried out in the specialty, at the headquarters of the Commission, regarding the replacement text, submitted by the Commission of Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, on the Bill No. 87/XIV/1.a (PS), 107/XIV/1.a (PSD) and 110/XIV/1.a (CDS-PP). Submitted to the vote, were approved by unanimity.
Deputy of the PSD Alberto Amaro Guedes Machado intervene in a trial that runs in the Court of Justice of the Comarca do Porto.
Deputies, to produce the declaration of oral vote announced, relating to the replacement text, submitted by the Commission of Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, on the Projects of Law No. 87/XIV/1.a (PS), 107/XIV/1.a (PSD) and 110/XIV/1.a (CDS-PP), has the word to Mr. Deputy Inês de Sousa Real.
Deputies, with regard to the replacement text, submitted by the Commission of Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, which relates to the Projects of Law No. 87/XIV/1.a (PS), 107/XIV/1.a (PSD) and 110/XIV/1.a (CDS-PP), leaving out the initiatives of the Left Block and the PAN, wanted to say that we cannot follow in the whole this initiative. the PAN abstained because, effectively, it seems to us that this replacement text defraudes the scope of the working group itself and the initiative.
The next plenary session will be on Wednesday 7th, at 15 p.m., and will have two points in the work order. Prime Minister. Deputies thank you for your collaboration in this session and wish you a good weekend.
Before we enter the agenda, I ask Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha to report the file.
The following legislative initiatives have been admitted, and the following legislative initiatives have been admitted: Projects of Resolution No. 677/XIV/2.a (BE), 678/XIV/2.a (PSD, 55/PP, 55/PP, 55/PP, 55/PP, 55/PP, 55/PP, 55/PP, 55/PP, 55/PP, 55/PP, 55/PP, 55/PP, 55/PP, 55/PP, 55/PP, 55/PP, 55/PP, 55/PP, 55/PP, 55/PP, 55/PP, 55/PP, 55/PP, 55/PP, 55/PP, 55/PP, 55/PP, 55/PP, 55/PP, 55/PP, 55/PP, 55/PP, 55/PP, 55/PP, 55/PP, 55/
The first point of today's work order consists of a debate with the Government on general policy, pursuant to Article 224, paragraph 2, subparagraph a, of the Regulation.
First-Minister, the topic I bring you here that important that Government that I admit that nothing can evolve to be classified as the most important topic that any of us could bring, has to do with the evolution of the mortality rate, in Portugal. The PS, in the Government, focused on the National Health Service (SNS) the efforts to fight the pandemic, saying — and well, I agree — that if we cross the rate of the five years that the death rate is that the government that the death rate is that the death rate is that the death rate is that the death rate is that the death rate is that the death rate is that the death rate is that the death rate is that the death rate is that the death rate is that the death rate is that the death rate is that the death rate is that the death rate is that the death rate is that the death rate is that the death rate is that the death rate is
The Prime Minister.
Deputy Rui Rio, I will be able to provide you with a preliminary study that exists on the excess mortality in Portugal, in the period of January to July of this year, where it refers, in particular, the incidence of high temperatures and heat waves as being able to have a correlation. 0 Anyway, as I tell you, it is a preliminary study, but I will be able to deliver it and you will be able to see the deepest conclusions and the pistes of reflection that are open.
Member of the Parliament Rui Rio.
For example, in the first half of the year, in the second half of the year, in the second half of the year, in the second half of the year, in the second half of the year, in the second half of the year, in the second half of the year, in the second half of the year, in the second half of the year, in the second half of the year, in the second half of the year, in the second half of the year, in the second half of the year, in the second half of the year, in the second half of the year, in the second half of the year, in the second half of the year, in the second half of the year, in the second half of the year, in the second half of the year, in the second half of the year, in the second half of the year, in the second half of the year, in the second half of the year, in the second
The Prime Minister.
Deputy Rui Rio, the study I mentioned recently concludes that there is no correlation between the breakdown of activity and the increase in the number of obits registered in this period. Anyway, it is obvious that, with the pandemic, there was a very significant breakdown of the assistance activity. It is also true that, in the months of May, June and July, there was a significant recovery, but, in August, there was no longer, having registered again a breakdown, and we still don’t have the final numbers of September. However, if we compare homologous periods, relative, for example, to the month of August, we check that the assistance, this year, was not significantly different from the previous years, from the late year immediately, with a reduction of a 3,6%.
by Rui Rio.
This is the first time I’ve been told that I’ve been told that I’ve been told that I’ve been told that I’ve been told that I’ve been told that I’ve been told that I’ve been told that I’ve been told that I’ve been told that I’ve been told that I’ve been told that I’ve been told that I’ve been told that I’ve been told that I’ve been told that I’ve been told that I’ve been told that I’ve been told that I’ve been told that I’ve been told that I’ve been told that I’ve been told that I’ve been told that I’ve been told that I’ve been told that I’ve been told that I’ve been told that I’ve been told that I’ve been told that I’ve been told that I’ve been told that I
In the second round, you will have a new opportunity.
It is obvious that we are here in a political debate between the opposition and the government, but what is most important to me is, through this debate,...
The excess time spent in this first round will be discounted in the second.
It is a good idea for you to be able to do it.
